---
author:
- Jared Kurz
date: 12 January 2002
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

Following the failed Borg invasion of 2367, Starfleet rushed project
Defiant to completion. The end result was considered a total flop when
the test ship was found to be incapable of performing. Discouraged with
the results, Starfleet turned its attention elsewhere. But the Defiant
was far from buried. Like a phoenix rising from the ashes it rose to
fame in the Dominion war of 2370, and played a crucial part in halting
the second Borg invasion of 2373. The little war ship had previously
been described as "a star ship squeezed into the shell of a fighter."
The ship was overpowered and over-gunned for its size, but had proved
itself to be more than equal to many challenges.

With the end of the Dominion war however, the Defiant Class ships were
beginning to return very little. Designed primarily for combat, they
found themselves on border patrols, diplomatic courier missions, convoy
escort and other mundane roles in a Federation without a war to fight.
Roles which were quickly being allocated to more capable starships.
Starfleet was considering the retirement of Defiant Class vessels, but
wanted to have a similar ship that could fill the particular niche the
Defiant Class had created. Phardos Shipyards responded with the Avenger
Class. Based largely upon its highly successful predecessor, the Avenger
was conceived as a high speed, heavily armed and armored
escort-destroyer. By 2375 the specifications were presented to Starfleet
Command, and they created quite a stir. The Avenger offered a
significant increase in the Defiant Classes capabilities, but managed to
keep the vessel small and compact.

Capable of the same patrol and escort missions as it's predecessor, the
Avenger's also included the latest scientific instruments and a very
well furbished laboratory. The Avenger Class is produced at the Phardos
Shipyards at a rate of four vessels per year. Several ships have been
put aside for experimental use and will be used as test-beds for new
technologies. The usefulness of the class is only just becoming apparent
and the Phardos engineers are already drafting proposals for a Mark II
Avenger with further enhancements, as well as a slightly less capable
variant for exporting purposes.

Despite the efforts of the Phardos designers, the Avenger is slightly
less maneuverable than it's predecessor. This is because the vessel is
considerably more massive than the Defiant Class, due to the incredible
amount of equipment that has been squeezed into the spaceframe.

Structure and Construction
==========================

The Avenger was designed with integral warp nacelles, reducing the
vessels cross-section and making it more difficult to target in battle.
This also has the effect of increasing the efficiency of the energy
transfer from the warp core to the nacelles. Built around a
revolutionary heavy duranium/tritanium double hull sporting 1.5 cm of
high density rodinium armor plating over the entire ship, the Avenger
can soak up a significant amount of fire before taking critical damage.
Like the Defiant class, all internal systems that require access to the
vessels exterior are equipped with articulated or jettisonable hull
plates. This means that most of the familiar structures are hidden from
view, including docking ports, lifeboats, impulse vents,
deuterium/anti-deuterium refill ports and mooring beam and tractor beam
emitters. The hull is strengthened by a high-level structural integrity
field (SIF), allowing the vessel to withstand extreme stresses without
causing structural damage.

The inner hull is fitted with a tetra-plast poly alloy and the patented
Dynatech Liquiplast" coagulating material. "Liquiplast" material is
always in a gel form until exposed to the vacuum of outer-space, while
the tetra-plast poly alloy is a specialized plastic layer that melts
when hit by weapons fire. It than expands to help fill breaches and
quickly re-solidifies providing structural support. While these two
systems are designed to provide a patch to small hull breeches like
micro-fractures, they can also help maintain the structural integrity of
damaged sections when used in conjunction with the ship's SIF. They also
provide an alternative means of maintaining atmospheric pressure if
atmospheric force-fields are unavailable, but are ineffective in the
case of larger hull breaches. A series of emergency bulkheads and
isolation pocket-doors help seal off damaged sections.

Atmospheric thrusters and landing struts are located in the hull to
facilitate surface landings up to but not exceeding 1.9g environments.

The Avenger's hull lifetime is expected to be 50 years at least, and the
classes refit schedule is as follows: Minor - 2 years, Standard - 10
years, Major - 25 years.

Avenger Class ships have a standard range of 6 months, but can operate
for up to 18 without resupply.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

The Avenger's type-7 high gain sensor system can scan 10.6 light-years
of space in the low-resolution mode and up to 3.1 light-years in the
high-resolution mode.

The Avenger is normally equipped with a full suite of sensors including:

Wide-angle EM radiation imaging scanner
Quark population analysis counter
Gravimetric distortion mapping sensor
Steerable life form analysis instrument cluster
Low-frequency EM flux sensor
Localized subspace field stress sensor
Parametric subspace field stress sensor
Variable band optical imaging cluster
Virtual aperture graviton flux spectrometer
Very low energy graviton spin polarimeter
Low-level thermal imaging sensor
Fixed angle gamma frequency counter
Virtual particle mapping camera
The sensors are adapted from the standard sensor pallets used on other
Federation vessels, and are set behind selectively EM opaque hull
plating. In most battle situations, the sensor clusters can retreat into
reinforced wells until action levels have been reduced. This has the
drawback of reducing the effectiveness of the sensors but protects them
from sustaining damage in combat operations. The sensors can be brought
into closer contact with the hull plates, returning the sensors to full
effectiveness.

The ship is equipped with 18 probes, two of each configuration from
class I to class IX. In the event additional probes are required
however, torpedoes can be removed from the ships arsenal and
reconfigured as a slightly less capable class VIII or class IX.

Computer Systems
----------------

The ships main computer core is located on deck 5. It contains the main
isolinear computer grids, power regulators and offices for monitoring
staff and mechanics. It also contains protected file storage areas,
where backup copies of vital control software are kept if needed.
Command and control inputs are directed through either the ship's
bio-neural circuitry or it's backup ODN and isolinear system. All
computer sub-processors utilize bio-neural technology to increase
computer response time.

The computer core is based on the highly successful M-8A AICS Command
System employed on Galaxy Class vessels, the Avenger's isolinear
computer core can store 15,696,938 terra bytes of information with an
average response time of 0.6959 nanoseconds. The software package uses
the Federation LCARS operating system, including the standard voice
interface and an EMH program with the appropriate holo-emitters in
sickbay.

The MARS combat computer is a battlefield artificial intelligence,
programmed with every combat tactic used by every known species
encountered to date. The system has an integrated neural network which
allows it to analyze and adapt to new situations. The MARS system works
in combat situations to provide the Captain and crew with
up-to-the-minute tactical information, including recommended strategies
and analysis of potential weaknesses in enemy vessels. The computer also
runs the PAI software that is becoming standard on all Phardos vessels.
The PAI is a rapid-integration unit similar to the MARS combat computer.
The system was programmed to handle autonomous systems more effectively
as well as manipulate the vessels warp-field in flight.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

The Phardos Engineers were presented with a dilemma when selecting a
M/ARA for the Avenger project. At first the core from Project Defiant
was chosen, as it had been so successful in powering that vessel, but
the ships were too radically different for it to be a successful mating.
The difficulties encountered almost derailed the Avenger Class from any
hope of production, and a new core needed to be chosen. Unfortunately
the small size and unusual configuration of the Avenger's hull meant
that a similar warp core would have to be installed. This was
unacceptable as it would reduce the vessels promised capabilities and
endanger the contract. The Phardos engineers found a way to change this
by installing a larger and more reliable core horizontally in the ship,
rather than the traditional vertical assemblies on other starships. This
M/ARA was actually designed to run in a ship over three and a half times
larger than the Avenger.

Rated at 1500+ Cochranes, the FGC-4500/15 M/ARA is capable of producing
an incredible surplus of power. Tapped with the Avenger's unique EPS
handling system the designers knew they had a winner, and decided to
increase the ships armament capabilities, deflector shield power and
sensor capabilities in order to put as much energy as possible to use.
The warp engines on the prototype were also upgraded to the next class,
giving the ship oversized engines to go with it's oversize powerplant.
The increased capabilities would allow the Avenger to maintain a higher
cruise velocity as well as reduce the wear on critical components. To
accommodate the larger warp field coils, the beam of the test-ship was
actually increased by 8.3 meters.

The ships cruising speed is warp 5.5, which can be maintained until fuel
exhaustion. Maximum sustainable speed for twelve hours is warp 7.2 and
the maximum warp speed is 9.8. Due to the positioning of the engine
nacelles, the engines are of a fixed-wing configuration. The z-axis of
the warp field is manipulated by varying the subspace field produced by
the warp coils, and as such the engines are non-damaging to subspace.
Because manipulating the warp-field during use is an exacting process,
the PAI is programmed to automatically adjust the field to get the most
efficiency.

In catastrophic emergencies, the Avenger M/ARA is ejected aft beneath
the impulse engines. The prototype vessel had the ability to eject it's
engine nacelles, but later Avenger's with their integral engines are
unable to accomplish this. Instead the vital engine hardware, such as
the warp field coils, are dumped as one assembly out the aft of the
hull.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

The main impulse engines are located in a tail on the aft section of the
hull. They are equipped with thrust vectoring systems to help increase
the vessels maneuverability, which is equivalent to the Defiant Class.
The maximum impulse velocity of the ship with all engines running is
limited to 0.30c. This is to prevent the ship from experiencing any time
dilation effects which ships begin to experience in excess of this
speed. The limiter program can be disabled to allow access to the full
available power of the engines, which when overloaded with auxiliary
reactors or injected with anti-matter can provide 130-140% power for a
limited amount of time.

To augment the impulse propulsion system, an above average compliment of
RCS thruster assemblies has been installed. These thrusters are normally
used for precision flight maneuvers, such as docking, but can also be
used to increase manoeuverability during combat situations or as an
alternative means of maintaining attitude control.

Catastrophic emergency procedures include the jettisoning of IPS fusion
reactors and other engine hardware.

Tactical Systems
================

The Avenger's armament is very heavy for it's size. Two fixed torpedo
launchers, two "strip" phaser arrays, and four pulse phaser banks give
the Avenger a significant punch, while the new FSQ-120 shielding offers
more then adequate protection.

Defensive Shields
-----------------

The FSQ-120/B Deflector System is an improved version of Phardos/Orion's
FSQ-120 and 120/A series. Designed especially for combat vessels, the
shield emitters themselves are designed to run at a higher peak
efficiency, thanks to up-rated cooling systems and energy relays. This
allows the shields to be run for longer periods at maximum performance.
A powerful subspace-field discriminator/amplifier coil was included in
the defensive suite to allow the shields to switch to a variety of
modulations automatically.

The Avenger is protected by six interconnecting shield generators,
providing a maximum graviton load of 1344 megawatts, with a maximum
energy dissipation rate of 3.7x10\^5 kilowatts. Two auxiliary generators
can provide emergency shielding for a few seconds, but are only rated at
167 megawatts with a maximum energy dissipation rate of 4.5x10\^4
kilowatts. This is not enough to protect the ship in a long firefight,
but can be used to buy a few seconds for a quick escape.

Phaser Systems
--------------

Two type VII "strip" phaser arrays are integrated into the wing tips,
providing excellent all around coverage. These phasers are rated at 1.3
MW and have an effective range of 75,000 kilometers. An up-rated cooling
system and a secondary phaser power coupling allow the Avenger's wing
phasers, which are usually saved for point-defense, to provide
continuous covering fire throughout even long battles. Each "strip" can
engage up to two targets at once.

There are also four forward firing type VIII pulse-fire phaser cannons,
concentrated into the nose of the Avenger. These phasers are rated at
2.6 MW and have a range of 150,000 kilometers, but to be most effective
are usually saved for close range passes.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

To round out the Avenger's armament, two standard torpedo tubes were
included into the design. They are capable of firing one torpedo every
two seconds, which means a staggered firing pattern launches one torpedo
every second. The MARS combat computer can simultaneously track and
compute firing and evasive-fire solutions on over a dozen targets,
allowing the Avenger to engage multiple targets at once while proving a
very difficult target for other vessels fire-control computers to lock
onto. The standard torpedo load-out is 40 torpedoes, and includes both
photon and quantum torpedoes. Additional tri-cobalt devices can be
launched when used with a standard torpedo casing. The photon and
quantum torpedoes have an effective range of 350,000 kilometers.

Firefly MIWS Torpedo
--------------------

The Avenger is also the first starship to employ the new Firefly MIWS
torpedo, which is a modified type VI torpedo with the warhead and
guidance systems removed. In their place a ripple-fire micro-torpedo
launching system is installed, firing a burst of twenty micro-torpedoes
in under five seconds. Each micro-torpedo is guided by the MARS combat
computer after release, and allows the Avenger to engage multiple
targets or hit multiple shields on a single target at the same time. Two
Firefly's could be launched releasing forty micro-torpedoes after a
single target, or a group of targets. Micro-torpedoes are not as
effective as normal torpedoes, but can be used to temporarily blind or
confuse an enemy if detonated close enough. The Firefly torpedo can be
launched up to ranges of 125,000 kilometers and be programmed to release
the micro torpedoes at any point in it's flight-path. The micro
torpedoes have an additional range of 75,000 kilometers after being
released, allowing a Firefly to be fired at a target 200,000 kilometers
from the launching ship.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

Evacuation/Abandon Ship
-----------------------

Evacuation of the Avenger Class is achieved through one of two means: If
the ships two transporters located on deck six would be used, evacuation
of the ships maximum compliment would take approximately four and a half
minutes. If a suitable transport site is unavailable, the ships forty
life-boats would be used. Each lifeboat can support three people for
eighty-six days. By linking two or more life-boats together, the
evacuees can conserve their supplies and extend their support period to
108 days or more. Evacuating the ships maximum compliment in life-boats
would take approximately two minutes.

Self Destruct Systems
---------------------

Self-Destruction of the Avenger Class is achieved by several ordinance
packages located at key positions throughout the ship, in concert with
the simultaneous release of both matter and anti-matter stores. The
computer is programed to provide a four minute countdown upon receiving
the proper command-authorization. The sequence can be aborted at any
time up to the T-10 second mark, after which there is no way to abort
the countdown. At T-10 seconds, the ordinance packages are armed and
primed for detonation. At T-5 seconds the IPS safeties are released and
the fusion reactions build uncontrollably, until at T-0 seconds the
reactors overload. Also at T-0 seconds, the matter/anti-matter loads are
released and the ordinance packages are detonated. The resulting
explosion is equivalent to 250 photon torpedoes detonated
simultaneously.

Main Bridge
-----------

The main bridge of the Avenger Class is embedded into deck 1 of the
ships hull. It serves as the command hub of the vessel during normal and
combat flight modes. The main bridge contains helm/navigation,
operations, tactical/communications, damage control, mission
operations/scientific and engineering/environmental stations. The main
bridge has a small ready room and conference room (6 seats) adjacent to
it.

The bridge layout is similar to that of the Defiant Class, except the
aft conference table has been placed behind a bulkhead. The dual
tactical stations were kept during the Dominion war, but one has now
been converted to a full science station. Emergency kick-out panels are
located on the port and starboard sides of the bridge, and lead to
jefferies tubes and escape trunks. Emergency environmental suits are
located in an equipment locker along the aft bulkhead.

Main Engineering
----------------

The engineering section of the Avenger Class is the most unique in the
fleet. The warp core runs horizontally through the ship, hugging the
ceiling on the main engineering deck with the power transfer conduits
running port and starboard into the wings on either side of the hull.
The way the core is aligned, it ejects aft right below the tail where
the impulse engines are housed. This design is rather unconventional,
but was necessary to facilitate the installation of a core that is too
large for the Avenger's hull.

The upper engineering deck provides access to the impulse engines,
housed in the ship's tail. The lowest engineering deck serves as a
repair and monitor area. Several dedicated offices and maintenance shops
provide work space, while a large component replicator allows the
fabrication of replacement parts. All engineering spaces are located
along the vessels center line, providing the maximum amount of
protection for the ships vital systems.

Security Section
----------------

The ship's security section is located on deck 5. There are two
detention cells, each capable of housing two prisoners at one time. A
wardroom/messroom is included for security staff, which has a large wall
display showing a cut-away view of the ship with the current security
status. Each cell has a double bunk, water closet and sink and is
isolated by it's own forcefield. The "exercise corridor" provides access
to each cell and is also isolated by a forcefield. The security section
also houses the ships armory, which is equipped with a wide range of
weapons for various tasks. Stores range from hand phasers and rifles to
photon-mortar launchers and solid shot combat rifles.

Science Laboratory
------------------

The Avenger is equipped with one general-purpose laboratory, which can
handle most astronomical, geological or biological studies that may be
necessary. The lab is unfinished, with extra ODN and EPS taps
throughout. This makes it easy to modify should the crew need a more
specialized lab and facilitates the addition of extra equipment.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

The Avenger Class was designed to operate away from bases and supply
stations for extended periods of up to 18 months. As such it's cargo
bays can carry 2,500 metric tonnes of cargo which is divided into two
bays. Cargo bays A and B each can store 1,250 mt and are each equipped
small cargo transporters and have external bay doors. They are capable
of servicing the various sensor arrays located in pallets along the
hull. Each cargo bay is outfitted with EPS and ODN connections for quick
modifications in the event the crew needs additional work space, a
larger sickbay or a better equipped science lab.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

There are several tractor beam emitters located around the ship. The
main emitter is located on the ships belly and is capable of holding a
250,000 metric tonne object at a range of less then 1,000 meters.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

There are 2 standard 6-person transporters located on deck 5. They have
a maximum range of 40,000 kilometers because of a high resolution
transporter buffer. All the ships cargo transporters (2 small cargo)
also have a range of 40,000 kilometers.

Power Generation
----------------

The Avenger Class starships employ several means of providing power for
the vessels systems and engines:

Primary power is generated by the ships M/ARA, which is also responsible
for powering the vessels warp drives.
Secondary power is provided by the impulse fusion reactors, which can
provide power to the entire vessel for extended periods.
Tertiary power is generated by a backup fusion reactor system, providing
power to critical systems such as life-support, tactical and propulsion.
The tertiary reactor can provide limited impulse maneuvering by
directing a stream of hydrogen gas through the reactor and venting the
exhaust through the impulse engines. Maximum speed is estimated at
0.11c.
Quaternary power is provided by a series of storage cells, batteries and
solar collectors which can provide life-support and ultra-critical
systems power for a couple of days. If used sparingly by diverting power
only to emergency shelter areas, life-support can be maintained for
several days.
Crew Support Systems
====================

Sickbay
-------

Sickbay is located on deck 5. It is divided into two major sections. The
first contains the examination/emergency room (3 beds) in a single
operating/main diagnostic area. The second houses the ships medical
storage area and bio-lab. Both areas are equipped with holo-emitters and
can support an EMH.

Emergency Equipment
-------------------

The Avenger Class starships are equipped with several emergency support
systems. These include the standard emergency pressure garments (which
can support 1 person for up to 2 hours) and emergency medical/survival
kits (which can support 6 people for up to 3 days) located behind access
panels in every corridor. Additional equipment includes emergency
section support modules (which can provide life-support for 30 minutes)
and manual firefighting equipment (employing an Aqueous Form Fitting
Foam, or AFFF system) which are both located behind clearly labeled
panels in each section of the ship.

Variable Environmental Systems
------------------------------

Several areas of the ship are capable of supporting environments other
than standard class-M. One of these locations is the ships cargo bays.
Each bay has independent environmental controls which allow the
environment to be changed in terms of atmosphere, pressure, gravity and
temperature. Class H, K, L, M, N or N(2) environments can be recreated
in the ships cargo bays, and allows the Avenger to serve as a diplomatic
courier or a host to conferences.

Crew Quarters
-------------

Due to space constraints, crew quarters are fairly small and cramped at
only thirty square meters. Two persons of grades Junior-Lieutenant and
below share a single room. A single washroom is shared between two
quarters (four persons) containing a sonic shower/tub with Jacuzzi unit,
two water closets and two sinks. Quarters are sparsely furnished
featuring two standard twin size beds in a bunk-like configuration along
one wall. Two lounge chairs and a desk with library computer access
provide some living space. All crew quarters have access to ship's
services such as intercoms, but there are no replicators due to the
small size. Instead one mess room provides replicators for the crew.

Officers Quarters
-----------------

Officers quarters are similar to crew quarters, except contain only a
single standard twin size bed, two lounge chairs and a desk with library
computer access. A single washroom is shared between two quarters (two
persons) and includes a sonic shower/tub with Jacuzzi unit, a single
water closet and a single sink. The ship's CO and XO have private
washroom facilities. Each officers quarters includes office space and a
direct link with the ships computer core. All officers quarters have
access to ship's services such as intercoms, but there are no
replicators due to the small size. Instead an officers mess room
provides replicators for officers.

VIP Quarters
------------

The four VIP quarters are located on the same deck as the officers
quarters. They are arranged similarly to the CO and XO's cabins in that
they are equipped with private washroom facilities. VIP quarters also
have variable atmospheric systems, and are capable of supporting class
H, K, L, M, N and N(2) environments. VIP quarters are located
back-to-back and can easily be linked to form two large ambassadorial
quarters. When not in use the VIP quarters can be used as storage rooms
or house additional crew members. Like all crew and officers quarters,
there are no replicators present in the VIP quarters. Instead VIP's are
usually served in the officers mess and dine with the ship's command
staff.

Crew's Mess Room
----------------

The mess room provides food replicators for the crew and gives them a
place to meet for a friendly game of three dimensional chess. Four
replicator terminals are built into the mess room's forward bulkhead and
can provide a wide selection of foods from many different worlds. There
are two entrances located on the port and starboard sides and two large
bench-like tables. Each table can seat twelve people at a time
comfortably, though more can be squeezed in during a pinch. Due to the
positioning of the mess room in the hull there are no windows, though
several LCARS displays provide a means of entertainment.

Officer's Mess Room
-------------------

The officers mess room is located on deck four, and is almost a carbon
copy of the crews mess room. The only major difference is the single
twelve-person table positioned in the center of the room. The officers
mess room often is used as a conference room for larger scale meetings
when the small conference area located off the bridge is not sufficient.
A larger LCARS display dominates the aft bulkhead and can be configured
to display a variety of images.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

The Avenger is only equipped with two shuttlecraft, each operating out
of a separate landing bay. Each landing bay also serves as a service bay
for the shuttlecraft or the various sensor equipment onboard.
Shuttlecraft up to ten meters in length and six meters in width can be
supported from the landing bays. Below is a list of small-craft that
could be employed on Avenger class starships. Only those craft meeting
the size restrictions of the Avenger's landing bay are listed.
Small-craft exceeding these restrictions are not listed, even if they
could be carried externally beneath the hull.

-   Type 1 shuttle

-   Type 3 shuttle

-   Type 6 shuttle

-   Type 7 shuttle

-   Type 8 shuttle

-   Type 9 shuttle

-   Type 10 shuttle

-   Armadillo shuttle

-   Type 15 shuttlepod

-   Type 15A shuttlepod

-   Type 16 shuttlepod

-   Type 18 shuttlepod

-   Compsognathus interceptor

The Avenger is equipped with a generic docking collar at airlock 5,
located on the ventral hull of the ship. The docking clamps can be used
to carry small craft at speeds up to warp 6, providing the docked vessel
does not exceed the size of a runabout. This allows the Avenger to carry
additional equipment and engage in forced boarding operations. The
Avenger can also dock with larger vessels for high warp flight, provided
both vessels are equipped with docking ports and their engines are
slaved together.

Technical Specifications
========================

Length
:   180.2 meters

Beam (Width)
:   140.6 meters

Height
:   38.0 meters

Decks
:   6

Officers and Crew
:   55

Visiting Personnel
:   8

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   140

Core
:   M-8B Type III AICS

Operating System
:   Starfleet Library Computer Access and Retrieval System (LCARS)

User Interface
:   MAJEL

Power Plant
:   One 1500+ cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

Cruising Velocity
:   Warp 5.5

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   Warp 7.2

Maximum Velocity
:   Warp 9.8 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.30c

Accellerate
:   3.254 seconds

Decellerate
:   6.671 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   1344 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   3.7x10\^5 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   2

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   50 torpedoes

Phasers
:   -   2 Type-VII Phaser Strips

    -   4 Type-VIII Pulse Phaser Cannons

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Main Bridge
Main Bridge Ready Room
Main Bridge Conference Room (6 seats)
Shuttle Landing Bays Port and Starboard
Deck 2
------

Science Lab
Shuttle Repair Bays Port and Starboard
Cargo Bays A and B (upper)
Lifeboat Stations 1-20
Impulse Engines (upper)
Deck 3
------

Crew Quarters
Crew Mess
Transporters 3 and 4 (small cargo)
Cargo Bays A and B (lower)
Airlock 2 and Docking Port (port)
Airlock 3 and Docking Port (starboard)
Engineering Deck A
Impulse Engines (lower)
Deuterium Storage Tanks
Deck 4
------

Crew Quarters
Recreation Room
Engineering Deck B
M/ARA
M/ARA Ejection Systems
Airlock 4 and Docking Port (forward)
Deck 5
------

Officers Quarters
Officers Mess
VIP Quarters
Transporter Rooms 1 and 2 (standard 6-person)
Sickbay
Computer Core
Security Section (includes detention cells and ships armory)
Engineering Deck C
Lifeboat Stations 21-40
Deck 6
------

Emergency Landing Struts
Anti-Deuterium Storage Pods
Anti-Deuterium Storage Pod Ejection Systems
Deuterium/Anti-Deuterium Refill Ports
Observation Deck
Airlock 5 and Docking Port (lower)
Docking Clamps
Conclusion
==========

The Avenger Class is part of the next generation of Starships, designed
for more than just combat. Incorporating technologies that have been
developed over the past century, the Avenger is at the forefront of
technology and the design will be consistently upgraded to keep it
competitive with the latest designs by potential aggressors. Phardos
Shipyards has high hopes that these vessels will stand out in future
engagements, conducting themselves in a manner consistent with the
finest traditions of Starfleet.

Illustrations
=============

These other visual representations of the Avenger are available.

![ Profile View ](images/tm/avenger-profile.png)

![ Cutaway View ](images/tm/avenger-cutaway.png)

![ Avenger near Earth ](images/tm/avenger-earth.jpg)
