---
author:
- Bret Godfrey
date: 29 August 2003
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

> It's human nature to stretch, to go, to see, to understand.
> Exploration is not a choice, really; it's an imperative."
>
> — Michael Collins, Astronaut, Gemini-10 and Apollo-11

If you were to look at a star chart and draw a circle 20 light years in
radius around the Sol system, you would find no less then 68 different
star systems. With the advent of warp drive, mankind now had the means
to travel to these distant bits of uncharted real estate in less then a
standard life span. But as mankind's frontiers expanded, so to did
Starfleet's responsibilities. Few star systems had been properly
charted, to say nothing of the expanse that lay in between. Navigational
hazards had to be studied and catalogued. Slow moving cargo haulers with
voyages lasting several years between way points were easy targets for
roving Alien raiders from several different species. And to top it off,
it seemed that with every change in course a space captain made, there
was a fair chance of making contact with an as yet undiscovered life
form or spatial anomaly. By the early 2100's, it became apparent to
Starfleet that it needed to expand and modernize its miniscule
complement of starships if it were to succeed in its chartered duties.

After bitter lobbying with the semi-unified government of the United
Earth, Starfleet received funding to be allocated for several new
research and development programs. To get the best use of their meager
finances, Starfleet formed a committee to debate some of the lessons
that had been learned during the prior 56 years since Zephram Cochrane
first tested his theories on warp propulsion. In their final proposal,
the design committee stated that what was needed was a series of
starships that could travel in excess of TOS-Warp-5 and outfitted with
sufficient scientific, tactical, and endurance capabilities to fulfill
the varied mission parameters in Starfleet's jurisdiction. Starfleet
Procurement Command reviewed the committee's findings, and soon drafted
the engineering requirements for all new Starship construction,
beginning with the NX-Warp-5 project of 2119.

The task proved daunting for constructing a reliable TOS-Warp-5 engine.
By the year 2145, the fastest velocity humanity had achieved was
TOS-Warp-3. Growing impatient with the delays plaguing the NX-Warp-5
project, Starfleet inaugurated a new program specifically detailed to
design a simple, yet reliable engine capable of TOS-Warp-4. To shorten
the developmental and construction time, the new program, dubbed the
"NW-Project" was to use all the available data gained from the
NX-Program. It was hoped that a TOS-Warp-4 engine could be developed and
utilized as a stop-gap measure during new starship construction until
the NX-Warp-5 engine could be brought on line.

The beginning of the NW-Warp-4 project brought fresh minds with new
ideas to the drafting boards. After several abortive attempts and false
starts, the NW-Program design team was finally able to put their
theories to the test. On October 20, 2147, test pilot Lt. Quinton "Zip"
Pepper climbed into the NW-Alpha prototype "Glamorous Belle", and
successfully achieved the then incredible speed of TOS-Warp-4.06. Three
weeks later, he topped this feat on an endurance trial when he circum
navigated the solar system 10 full laps while holding at an average
speed of TOS-Warp-4.008. The total time of this record setting flight
was an amazing 4 hours, 2 minutes, and 59 seconds. For this achievement,
Lt. Pepper along with the entire NW Design Team was awarded the
Bendix-Cochrane trophy.

After several more speed trials, the NW Design Team received the go
ahead to design an engine for a much larger, more capable class of
starship. The more massive engine would be mated to an old DY-900 series
interstellar freighter. Although it didn't break any speed records the
retrofitted freighter did make the round trip from Sol to Proxima
Centauri and back in 73 days, proving once and for all the soundness of
the design.

Even as the freighter was being retrofitted with the larger, more
powerful NW Class warp drive, a new class of starship was already under
construction to be mated with the new drive once it received its
certification. Thus the Bonaventure Class Frigate was born. It was to
become the first starship designed and built from the keel up for speeds
in excess of TOS-Warp-4.

During the Bonaventure's first 6 years of service, several advancements
in aerospace technologies were accelerated into production due in large
part to the war with the Xindi. Upon completion of its second 3 year
mission, the Bonaventure entered dry dock on 15 March, 2155 for
maintenance and the new system upgrades. Improvements were made to the
ship's sensors, warp propulsion, phased energy canons, as well as the
adoption of the photonic torpedo.

Structure and Construction
==========================

> "It's a very sobering feeling to be up in space and realize that one's
> safety factor was determined by the lowest bidder on a government
> contract."
>
> — Alan Shepherd, Astronaut, Mercury (Friendship-7), and Apollo-14

In appearance, the Bonaventure Class has a saucer shaped main hull. The
deflector dish is mounted inside a special recess located in the bow of
the saucer. Two powerful and very large impulse engines, one port, and
the other starboard run from for to aft and extend well aft of the
saucer. The warp nacelles are attached to the outboard aft section of
the impulse engines via large double delta wing like pylons that are
canted a full 15 degrees above the saucer. In addition, there is a
special roll bar which houses the majority of the Bonaventure's sensory
suite mounted aft and above the saucer directly to the impulse engines.

The Bonaventure class was to be one of the first ships designed from the
keel up for TOS-Warp-4 space travel. The original contract called for an
average of 14 months for each of the six planned Bonaventure Class
starships to be built, with a planned three year cycle between equipment
upgrades. Even though this ship was to have every technical advantage
available at the time, standardized, off the shelf, equipment was to be
used wherever possible. One of the new technologies was the hull
polarization system which offered an increase in overall structural
integrity. Another innovation was the protein re-sequencer system. When
integrated into the ship's life support and waste disposal system, it
increased the length of time a ship could stay on station before it
needed re-supply of perishable cargo.

As was the standard practice of the day, the superstructure and hull
plating were comprised of tempered titanium, with an average hull
thickness of 20.0 cm. Hyper compressed nickel-steel alloys were also
used as a lightweight radiation/ micrometeorite shielding between
bulkheads. The saucer main hull is comprised of four decks, with an
average height of 3.75 meters per deck.

During the refit, several changes were made to the outer hull. First,
the deflector dish was removed and replaced with a smaller dish that
could operate at the same power levels. This allowed the forward section
of the main hull to become more streamlined, reducing the ships mass by
10%. The 2 torpedo launchers were replaced with launchers that could
handle the new photonic torpedoes. And with an upgrade of the warp core
came an upgrade in the warp field coils and vents along the sides of the
warp nacelles.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

> "Equipped with his five senses, man explores the universe around him
> and calls the adventure Science."
>
> — Edwin Hubble, Astronomer, originator of the Big Bang theory

Originally, the Bonaventure Class Starship was equipped with the
standard AE-35 sensory suite, but has since been upgraded to the
AE-35-B. The suite is housed in a fixed "Roll Bar" mounted above aft of
the impulse engines. This was to reduce any particle wave distortion
that might be caused by the main deflector dish while the ship was
traveling at high warp speeds. The original AE-35 sensory suite had a
high resolution range of 1.3 light years, and a low resolution range of
4.3 light years. The new AE-35-B suite has a high resolution range of
1.6 light years, and a low resolution range of 4.8 light years.

The Bonaventure Class ships are also equipped with the Cybercorp
PAL-9000 computer with the latest in isograted circuit technology. The
PAL-9000 is actually comprised of two integrated computer sub-cores.
This redundant bi-core design is capable of maintaining the ship's
imperative systems such as propulsion, navigation, and life support even
if one of the two sub-cores are deactivated. Even so, with only one
operational core, other systems such as communications, hull
polarization, life support, and weapons will have to be operated at
reduced levels unless balanced against the computative needs for the
remaining systems as the situation dictates. The first PAL-9000 core is
located in the forward port section of B-Deck, the second is located in
the aft starboard section of C-Deck. This was to minimize the risk of a
total computer failure if the ship should become damaged or
incapacitated.

Originally, the PAL-9000 was managed by the Macrohard Computer Operating
System (MCOS), volume 3.1, but has since been upgraded to MCOS volume
4.0.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

> "It is difficult to say what is impossible, for the dream of yesterday
> is the hope of today and reality of tomorrow."
>
> — Robert Goddard, Physicist, pioneering founding father of modern
> Rocket Science

As stated above, the two warp nacelles are mounted on delta shaped wings
above and aft the saucer section. This arrangement better balanced the
ship's center of mass for sublight maneuvering performance. The warp
core is mounted horizontally parallel to the centerline of the ship's
keel. The original warp core for the Bonaventure was rated at 92
cochranes with a max velocity of TOS-Warp 4.5 for 12 hours, a max
sustainable velocity of TOS-Warp 4, and a cruising speed of TOS-Warp
3.5. The warp core has since received upgrades in the turbo injectors
and field harmonics transducers which increased the efficiency of the
warp core by 15%, giving it a power rating of 105 cochranes, with a
maximum velocity of TOS-Warp 5.1 for 12 hours, a maximum sustainable
velocity of TOS-Warp 4.7, and a standard cruising speed of TOS-Warp 4.

In an emergency situation, the warp nacelles can be jettisoned from the
saucer section via a series of explosive bolts running the length of the
nacelle mounts.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

> "That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind."
>
> — Neil Armstrong, Astronaut, Gemini-8, and Apollo-11

The Bonaventure Class mounts two powerful supercharged impulse engines.
Together they are capable of propelling the ship at 0.16c during normal
operations, and a tactical speed of 0.18c during combat operations.
These speeds are halved should one of the impulse motors be deactivated
or damaged during sub-light spaceflight.

Tactical Systems
================

> "To be prepared for War is one of the most effectual means of
> preserving peace."
>
> — George Washington

Hull Polarization System
------------------------

For protection, the Bonaventure Class is equipped with a Hull
Polarization System. A reflective thermo coat of superconductive paint
is applied to the ship's hull. When the polarization field is activated,
an electromagnetic current is passed through fiber filaments imbedded in
the ship's super structure, encompassing the ship's outer hull plating.
This electromagnetic field "polarizes" the titanium of the ship's hull,
causing the titanium to become several magnitudes harder then it is in
its non-polarized state. Although the polarization field increases the
strength of the hull and dissipates potentially damaging kinetic and
particle energy along the entire hull surface, it does not make the hull
impervious to damage. For every action, there is an equal and opposite
reaction. As the polarized field absorbs damage caused by either
physical contact or particle energy blasts, the fiber filaments imbedded
with in the hull corrode: The greater the damage being absorbed, the
greater the loss of field integrity. Once there is a catastrophic loss
in field integrity in a given area, the ship's hull will receive the
full brunt of the damage being inflicted.

The Bonaventure's hull polarization system was originally designed to
increase the hull's integrity by 130% with a maximum dissipation rate of
3.3 x 10\^4 kilowatts. But the recent war with the Xindi brought about
an acceleration in defensive technologies. The current hull polarization
system is capable of increasing hull integrity by 150% at a maximum
dissipation rate of 3.8 x 10\^4 kilowatts.

Phased Energy Cannon
--------------------

The Bonaventure Class is currently outfitted with the latest Phased
Energy cannon. There are a total of three cannons, each with a 120
degree arc in both azimuth and elevation. These are located in the
above-forward-port, above-forward-starboard, and bellow-aft locations.
Each of the three phased energy cannons are comprised of a single
emitter mounted within a rotating gimbal, and is powered by its own
fusion power pack. Each power pack is capable of operating a single
phased energy cannon for a continuous beam set at maximum power for 4
minutes with out recharging, with a full recharge cycle lasting
approximately 1.5 hours. In times of crises, energy from the warp core
or the impulse engines can be shunted into the phased energy cannon
system for no longer then thirty minutes of continuous firing at maximum
beam power before the ocular crystal inside the cannon's emitter
disintegrates.

This first generation Phased Energy Cannon is rated to operate at
maximum beam energy of 0.6 MW, with a maximum effective range of
35,000km.

Torpedo Launching System
------------------------

The Bonaventure Class Starships are equipped with a total of two torpedo
launchers, one firing forward, and one firing aft. Both launchers are
located in the Armory which is in the center portion of C-Deck. The
Bonaventure's torpedo launchers have recently been retrofitted, giving
it the capability of launching both Spatial and Photonic Torpedoes.
Besides the standard electromagnetic accelerator rails, the launchers
have been outfitted with warp field coils. These coils are designed to
interact with the propulsion systems of the photonic torpedo by
generating a low level warp bubble which is imparted onto the photonic
torpedoes during launch.

The Bonaventure can carry a combined total of 30 torpedoes. Although
mission circumstances will dictate the exact combination of probe and
torpedoes, the standard load is considered to be 15 photonic torpedoes,
5 spatial torpedoes, 5 probes, and 5 non-allocated spatial torpedo hulls
that can be outfitted with either a warhead or scientific equipment as
the situation dictates.

Spatial Torpedo Weapon System
-----------------------------

The Mk-XIV spatial torpedo is comprised of a guidance system, a payload
section, and a micro impulse engine. The guidance system has four
subsystems: The guidance computer, a magnetic field receptor, an optical
scanner, and a subspace receiver. The torpedo can either be remotely
guided from the ship's targeting sensors, or it could be self guiding,
targeting an object's optically identified image, the target's
electromagnetic field, or by the target's subspace signature. The
payload section can be outfitted to carry a small payload, several
different types of sensor packages, or a tricobalt warhead. When tied
into the guidance system, the tricobalt warhead can be triggered with a
contact fuse, a proximity fuse, a timed fuse, or remotely detonated as
the situation dictates. The torpedo is rated with a maximum speed of
0.45c, and a range of 150,000km.

Photonic Torpedo Weapon System
------------------------------

The Mk-1A photonic torpedo uses a similar guidance system, electronics,
and maneuvering thrusters as the spatial torpedo, but is propelled by a
warp field capacitor. The warp field capacitor captures the micro warp
bubble generated by the torpedo launcher, allowing the torpedo to have
greater range and acceleration to the target then the standard spatial
torpedo. Fuel for the warp field capacitor is supplied directly from the
explosive warhead, which is comprised of two containment bottles, one
containing matter, and the other anti-matter. The fuels are mixed in a
combustion chamber which channels the energy into the propulsion unit
until the torpedo nears its target, at which time the containment
bottles are ruptured by a small explosive charge, which causes the
matter and anti-matter to instantaneously combine and explode. Since the
torpedo uses its fuel as the warhead, it can be pre-programmed to vary
the warhead's explosive yield by using more or less fuel during the
acceleration phase of its trajectory. Because the warhead supplies the
fuel for the photonic torpedo, this first generation of photonic torpedo
can not be retrofitted to operate as a scientific probe as there is no
room within the torpedo to carry extra payload. The Mk-1A photonic
torpedo is rated at a maximum speed of .65c, and a range of 200,000km

Command and Support Systems
===========================

> "Any home port the ship makes will be somebody else's, not mine."
>
> — Finagle's Law

Armory
------

As stated above, the ship's Armory houses the torpedo launching and
maintenance systems. It is also used as the store room for the usual
assortment of 5 phase-rifles, and 25 phase-pistols, a case of 40
concussion grenades, a case of 20 shaped charges, and a case of 20
Anastazine gas grenades. The ship's Armory is located in the forward
most section of C-Deck.

Science Lab
-----------

The Sciences Lab is a generically outfitted laboratory capable of
handling astrophysical, geological, chemical, or biological observation.
It is located on C-Deck. A small atmospheric chamber is often used to
duplicate specific atmospheric conditions such as H, K, L, M, or N
environments for xeno-biological experimentation.

Bridge
------

The Bridge is located in the center of A-Deck of the saucer section. It
is comprised of an Engineering duty station, a communications duty
station, a science duty station, a tactical duty station, and a
helm/navigation duty station. The "Con" is located at the center of the
room, and is slightly elevated so that the ship's CO can swivel around
and observe his Bridge crew as needed. The only access to the Bridge is
via a single elevator located to the rear and port of the room.

Engineering
-----------

The ship's Engineering section is actually two adjoining yet separate
compartments, the first is the actual Engine Room, and the second is the
Maintenance Room. The Engine Room is located in the aft most section of
C and D-Decks, and houses the horizontally mounted warp core, along with
controls and linkages to all the ship's major and minor functions such
as life support, warp and impulse propulsion, hull polarization, and
life support, weapons, sensors, and power generation systems. Two small
one man elevators operate on either side of the room, giving crewmembers
access to the catwalks leading to and around the various ships'
mechanical systems.

The Maintenance Room is located on C-Deck and is directly adjacent to
the Engine Room. It is basically a small compartment outfitted with the
various tools and machinery needed to maintain and repair the ship's
systems.

Ready Room
----------

The Ready Room is located adjacent to the Bridge on A-Deck. The Ready
Room is outfitted as a small, private office for the ship's captain.
Usually, it is equipped with a work station, equipment locker, and one
or two privately obtained furnishings. What is unique about the Ready
Room is its designed utility. There is a collapsible couch that folds
out from one wall, along with a collapsible "dinner set" made up of a
table and four chairs. This "dinner set" is usually only used for the
Captain's Mess, or for special occasions when the Captain has to
entertain visiting VIPs.

Situation Room
--------------

The Situation Room is located directly aft of the Bridge on A-Deck. It
is composed of five regularly sized visual wall displays, and one large
central island cabinet display mounted in the center of the deck. Under
normal conditions, this room is primarily used as a navigational aid and
for detailed scientific analysis of astronomical interstellar phenomena.
If the needs of the mission dictates, the room is used as a "Situation"
room in which the command staff can discuss and analyze their current
situation, and how best to proceed with the mission at hand.

Utility Systems
===============

> "If the wind will not serve, take to the oars."
>
> — Latin Proverb

Cargo Bays
----------

There are three cargo pays, located in the forward, port, and starboard
sections of D-Deck. Each cargo hold is compartmentalized, each
compartment having its own set of environmental controls. This design
gives the ship the capability of storing perishable cargo with in the
proper level of temperature and oxygenated atmosphere.

Docking Airlocks
----------------

There are two universal docking airlocks, both on C-Deck, one on the
port side, and one on the starboard side of the saucer section
respectively. Each has a retractable gantry, and may be configured to
attach to a variety of hatch sizes and configurations.

Elevator Systems
----------------

There are a total of three four-man elevators, all running vertically
through the ship's main saucer section. Elevator-1 is in the center of
the saucer and services Decks-A through D. Elevator-2 is in the forward
portside quarter of the saucer and services Decks-B through D. And
Evelator-3 is located in the aft starboard quarter of the saucer and
also services Decks-B through D respectively.

Should any of the elevators fail, access to the shaft is achieved
through an emergency mechanical crank which can be used to open or close
the outer doors of the elevator shaft, allowing crewmembers to move from
deck to deck via a ladder mounted to the inside wall of the shaft.
Crewmembers trapped in an elevator car may escape through one of two
emergency hatchways located in the ceiling and deck of the elevator car.

Magnetic Grappling System
-------------------------

The Bonaventure Class Starship is equipped with four dual grapple
launchers. These launchers are located in a recessed bay within the
ship's outer hull. When activated, the dual grapple launcher telescopes
from its bay so that it can better target the object to be grappled. The
grapples themselves form an electromagnetic bond with the target object,
and the titanium alloy cables can be manipulated to position the object
as needed after it has been grappled. One grapple is located above and
aft of the saucer, one is located near the shuttlebay, one is located
above forward of the port side, and the last is above forward starboard
side. Although the grapplers are intended for shuttlepod recovery, they
may be used to recover any number of objects in which a magnetic bond
can be attained.

Each magnetic grappler and its tether are rated for a maximum target
object weight of 14 metric tones, with a tether range of 1.5km.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

The ship is equipped with a Transporter System, located on D-Deck
adjacent to both the Decontamination Chamber and the Shuttlebay. The
Transporter is outfitted with two transporter pads, each with their own
Heisenberg Compensator. This allows the transporter to teleport two
objects or two humanoid personnel at the same time, and in the same
direction with minimal risk of the two matter-energy streams combining
during transport. Although the Transporter is certified to transport
living organisms such as humanoids, it is generally used for the short
ranged teleportation of cargo. Current sensory and computer technology
is incapable of accurate and safe transportation of living organisms
under anything but ideal conditions. Any attempt to transport a living
organism during hazardous conditions may be fraught with side effects
such as distortion or melding of objects or life forms during
transportation. It should be noted that the transporter is greatly
affected be the speed of the object or person to be transported in
relation to the ship. Teleportation at relative velocities above .20c
are not recommended, with Warp-1 being impossible as the ship's sensors
can not track a target to the accuracy needed for safe teleportation.
The range of the transporter system is 3,000km.

Utility Pod Bay
---------------

The Utility Pod Bay was designed with mission flexibility in mind,
allowing for the ship to be easily equipped with a variety of subsystems
as the situation dictates. In all, there are a total of six Utility Pod
Bays. Three are located on B-Deck, and cover the above port, forward,
and starboard quarters. Three more are located on C-Deck, and cover the
bellow-port, bellow-starboard, and bellow-aft quarters respectively. The
Utility Pod Bay is a cylindrical internal compartment measuring 2.0
meters tall and 2.5 meters in diameter. The Utility Bay houses the
Utility Arm, which is outfitted with a gimbaled twin hard point
equipment mount. The hard points have both power and data flow receptors
so that mission specific equipment pods can be easily "plugged" into
each hard point with minimal effort. Maintenance and the
replacement/refit of equipment pods can easily be done from inside the
ship while the arm is in its fully retracted "rest" position. When in
use, the outer doors of the Pod Bay open, and the Utility Arm extends
outward, revealing the attached Equipment Pods. The equipment can then
be rotated around to "target" a given area or point in space as needed.
If the replacement equipment pod is already on hand, the time to perform
a complete swap out is approximately 15 minutes per pod being replaced.
A storage locker is located near each Utility Pod Bay, capable of
housing the usual complement of four Equipment Pods. The maximum size of
an Equipment Pod is 0.52 cubic meters.

The Equipment Pods may include (yet not limited to) one of the
following:

Sensor Pod
:   The Sensor Pod may be augmented to fulfill a multitude of sensory
    requirements such as higher resolution or more sensitive sensors as
    the situation and resources on board the ship dictates. It should be
    noted that the Sensor Pod is incapable of increasing the range of
    the ship's sensors. Rather, they will aid the ship's standard sensor
    package in gathering data during localized scans of up to 800,000km.

Auxiliary Magnetic Grappler Pod
:   The Auxiliary Magnetic Grappler Pod is of a similar design to the
    standard Magnetic Grappler system already mentioned above.

Auxiliary Phased Energy Cannon
:   Again, this is of a similar design, with the same range and power
    settings as that of the Phased Energy Cannon already listed above.
    The only difference is this weapon pod lacks a power generator of
    its own. Thus it will have to draw its energy directly from the
    ship's warp or impulse systems.

It should be noted that the retractable arm of the Utility Pod Bay is
not protected by the ship's hull polarization system while the doors are
opened and the arm is in use. Thus the arm and any pod it is equipped
with are highly vulnerable to weapons damage or local spatial
conditions. It should also be remembered that any pod that needs to be
constructed or heavily modified for a specific non-standard use will
greatly increase the swap out/refit time from several hours to possibly
several days, that is, if the resources and tools needed for the
retrofit are on hand.

Each Equipment Pod is labeled with a warning placard that reads: This
Equipment Pod is not designed for human conveyance. Any person ridding
inside or on top of the Equipment Pod does so at their own risk.

Crew Support Systems
====================

> "Surely oak and threefold brass surrounded his heart who first trusted
> a frail vessel to the merciless ocean."
>
> — Horace

Crew Quarters
-------------

Enlisted and Junior Officers are billeted in pairs, sharing a small
cabin consisting of, two bunks, two work stations, and two small
closets. In addition to the two standard bunks, there are provisions for
three retractable cots which could be stacked and mounted against a free
wall. Though this arrangement is only used as the situation dictates.
For every two crew cabins, there is a single shared Head. The Head is
nothing more then a small standard heated water shower with a toilet and
a sink that fold in and out from the bulkhead.

Senior Officers and visiting VIPs fair marginally better in that they do
not have to share their quarters or bathing facilities with another crew
member. Each Senior Officer/ VIP cabin is designed with the same
interior volume as that of the crew quarters. Inside, there is a single
bed, closet, and work station. In addition, each state room has an
attached, private Head of similar design and lay out as that of the crew
quarters. Because of space utilization concerns, there are only two
cabins specifically assigned as VIP staterooms. As stated above, the
Senior Officer/ VIP state rooms have provisions for the instillation of
three additional retractable cots which can be stacked and mounted
against a free wall.

All of the ship's sleeping quarters are located on B-Deck, with the
Captain's Cabin in the aft most section, or "Fantail" of the saucer.

Crew Recreational Facilities
----------------------------

There is a single Mess Hall located in the forward most quarter of
B-Deck. The Mess Hall is a dual purpose room. When not in use for meals,
it is often used as a sort of recreation room. Under usual conditions,
there is a movie shown on the large display screen twice a week for the
crew's enjoyment, although programming is subject to Captain's
discretion. Also located in the Mess Hall is a well stocked and fully
equipped game locker. Stocked inside is a wide range of portable table
top games for the crew to use at their leisure. The locker may be
stocked with such games as three dimensional chess, and Fizbit.

Galley
------

Located adjacent to the Ship's Lounge, near the center of B-Deck is the
ship's Galley. The Ship's Galley is the "kitchen" on board the ship. It
is comprised of four combination conventional/microwave ovens, four
stoves, three sinks, a food locker, and a protein re-sequencer.
Perishable food stuffs for the Galley are stored in three separate fully
compartmentalized pantries: One is a freezer, the second a refrigerator,
and the third is used for bulk non-perishable items and is equipped with
only the most basic climate controls.

The Galley is also equipped with the latest in protein re-sequencing
technology. The protein re-sequencer recycles biological waste materials
into simple protein and sucrose compounds resembling meat/ dairy/
vegetable byproducts such as ground beef, fish or poultry, cheeses,
fruit juices and preserves. Although highly efficient, the re-sequencer
is incapable of creating food stuffs with a complex layered formation as
found in a turkey leg (with fat, bone and skin attached to the meat), or
the fibrous consistency of fresh fruits and vegetables. Also, there
tends to be a slight after taste, clearly identifying that the food has
been "recycled". Only the most able of cooks are capable of reducing or
camouflaging the after taste of the re-sequenced protein.

Medical Facilities
------------------

The ship's Sickbay is located on C-Deck, in the very center of the
saucer section, and is the most highly protected section in the entire
ship. The ship's Sickbay is a large room housing three
examination/recovery/surgical beds, surgical instrumentation, and a
diagnostic bio scanner. The bio scanner is equipped with micro-scanners,
a diagnostic computer, and a slide-out examination bed. A patient is
slid inside the chamber of the bio scanner so that the attending
physician can perform a highly detailed scan of the patient's physical
condition. The ship's Sickbay is also outfitted with a full assortment
of medicine and medicine synthesizing equipment.

Decontamination Chamber
-----------------------

The ship's Decontamination Chamber is located adjacent to both the
Shuttlebay and Transporter Pad on D-Deck. It's positioned near the
turbolift and transporter pad for easy access for crew members returning
to the ship from an alien environment, either by shuttle pod, or by
transporter. When a landing party returns to the ship, they are
automatically scanned for alien bacterial or viral contamination. If a
contamination is found, the landing party inhabits the decontamination
chamber until the ship's Medical Officer gives the all clear.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

> "Once more upon the waters, yet once more! And the waves bound beneath
> me as a steed that knows its rider!"
>
> — Lord Byron

Locate in D-Deck is the ship's Shuttlebay. It is equipped with a dual
launcher magnetic grapple, and two robotic retrieval arms. The
Bonaventure is capable of handling the usual load out of two standard
shuttlepods with storage space for a third. The shuttlebay only has
minor repair facilities for the shuttlepods. Should a shuttlepod be lost
or severely damaged, the shuttlepod will have to be repaired or replaced
when the ship returns to a starbase for repairs.

During launch and retrieval operation, the shuttlebay is sealed off, and
the atmosphere is removed so that the shuttlepods may be launched into
or retrieved from the vacuum of space.

Shuttlepods
-----------

The standard Starfleet shuttlepod is the work horse of the fleet. The
titanium hull is streamlined and has small delta wings on either side
for atmospheric re-entry and flight. The shuttle pod uses reaction
thrusters for atmospheric propulsion and maneuverability in space. A
single impulse engine provides its primary source of propulsion while in
spaceflight. Maximum speed for the shuttlepod is .10c in spaceflight and
4000 km/h in atmospheric flight. The shuttlepod can carry a crew of 6
with enough life support for 24 hours. As a precaution, each shuttle pod
is equipped with a single plasma cannon. The plasma cannon have a range
of 10km, and maximum beam energy of 300kw. The standard empty weight of
a shuttlepod is 7.0 metric tons, with a maximum gross take off weight of
8.5 tons respectively.

Technical Specifications
========================

> "I had the ambition to not only go farther than man had gone before,
> but to go as far as it was possible to go."
>
> — Captain Cook, 18th century English Explorer, discoverer of the
> Hawaiian Islands

Length
:   172.5 meters

Beam (Width)
:   127.5 meters

Height
:   33.8 meters

Decks
:   4

Officers and Crew
:   55

Command
:   1

Engineering
:   15

Medical
:   3

Science
:   11

Special Services
:   25

Visiting Personnel
:   8

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   130

Core
:   PAL-9000 isograted circuit Dual-core

Operating System
:   Macrohard Computer Operating System (MCOS), volume 4.0

Power Plant
:   One 105 cochrane M/ARA core feeding two nacelles

Crusing Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 4.0

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 4.7

Maximum Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 5.1 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.18c

Accellerate
:   45 seconds

Decellerate
:   65 seconds

Maximum Increase in Hull Integrity
:   150%

Polarization Field Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   3.4 x 10\^4 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   2 (1 fore, and 1 aft)

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   30 (combination of all types: Spatial, Photonic, and Scientific
        Probes)

Phased Energy Beams
:   -   3 Phased Energy Emitters (1 forward above port, 1 forward above
        starboard, and 1 bellow aft)

Deck Layout
===========

A Deck
------

Bridge
Ready Room
Situation Room
B-Deck
------

CO's quarters
XO's quarters
VIP quarters
Crew quarters
Galley
Mess Hall
PAL-9000 computer sub-core "A"
Utility Pod Bay-1 (above-portside)
Utility Pod Bay-2 (above-forward)
Utility Pod Bay-3 (above-starboard)
C-Deck
------

Armory (two torpedo launchers, one firing fore, the other aft)
Engineering
Sickbay
Maintenance Room
Science Laboratory
PAL-9000 computer sub-core "B"
Ship's Laundry
Utility Pod Bay-4 (below-port)
Utility Pod Bay-5 (below-aft)
Utility Pod Bay-6 (below-starboard)
D-Deck
------

Auxiliary Life Support
Auxiliary Power
Cargo Bays 1-2-3
Decontamination Chamber
Engineering
Shuttlebay
Transporter Pad
Ships of the Class
==================

Bonaventure
01
Endurance
02
Expedition
03
Meteor
04
Pioneer
05
Rendezvous
06
Conclusion
==========

> "There is just one thing I can promise you about the outer-space
> program: your tax dollar will go farther."
>
> — Wernher von Braun

The Bonaventure Class starships are fast proving their worth, gaining
the nickname "Greyhounds" by her crews for their combination of speed,
endurance, and durability. Although their mission is one of peaceful
exploration, they are equipped with sufficient firepower to defend the
ever expanding Teran space frontier.

Illustrations
=============

These other visual representations of the Bonaventure are available.

![ Bonaventure orbiting Earth ](images/tm/bonaventure-nebula.jpg)

![ Profile views of the Bonaventure ](images/tm/bonaventure-saturn.jpg)
