---
author:
- Bradley Joy
date: 4 April 2002
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

> "The one constant in the universe is change. The wise adapt"
>
> — The Tau

The late 24th century was a time of change for the Federation. War with
the Cardassian Union, internal strife within the Klingon Empire, and the
war with the Dominion resulted in the Federation taking an active role
in galactic politics. This had resulted in a knock-on effect for Star
Fleet, who were forced to cater for an increasingly hostile galaxy. Many
within Star Fleet felt that the increased emphasis on combat, although
necessary, was detracting from Star Fleet's traditional roles of
exploration and research.

In the aftermath of the Dominion War, a meeting was held at Avalon Ship
Yards, in an attempt to predict the future requirements of Star Fleet.
Given that, in the past two years, the war had demanded combat ships, it
was decided that Star Fleet would need new ships that weren't
combat-orientated.

A new Dreadnought, listed as NX/D10, was being developed and constructed
at Avalon at the time of this meeting. This ship was given to Avalon's
top designers and developers, with the simple brief: transform NX/D10
into a Science Vessel. With many of the major systems in place, and much
of the testing completed, the task took far less time than usual.

The majority of the weaponry was removed and replaced, creating a ship
with heavily reduced combat ability, but extensive scientific
capabilities. Any systems that could be retained without affecting the
ship's ability to fulfil its new role were kept.

Testament to the skills of the team at Avalon, the new ship was finished
in 2377, only 1 year after the intended deadline for the original
Dreadnought. The ship, classified as a Light Researcher, was deemed
space-worthy and commissioned as the USS Chimera NCC-97131.

Chimera-class vessels are intended to help expand the frontiers of
knowledge by scientific investigation. It is designed to investigate
phenomena that other ships are ill suited to study, and with its
abundance of scientific equipment and facilities can serve as a mobile
research station.

Intended missions are as follows:

Expansion of the frontiers of science
Investigation of anomalies
Research center
Planetary Survey
Short Range Exploration
Medical relief to non-combat situations
Structure and Construction
==========================

> "Die-cast construction. It's a lost art."
>
> — Optimus Primal

Like most modern Federation starships, the Chimera is split into two
sections, the Saucer and the Engineering Hull. As has become common
practice with recent designs, the two sections are connected directly.
From above, the Saucer is a broad kite shape, with heavily rounded
points. The Bridge sits on top of the expanded deck 02, which extends
along the dorsal surface of the Engineering hull, forming a backbone
ridge. The Saucer's dorsal surface is domed, while the ventral surface
is almost flat, with the noticeable exception of the Captain's Yacht's
Hanger doors.

The Engineering hull has a thin, elliptical shape, and emerges from the
aft and ventral Saucer surfaces. Part of the dorsal aft section is
removed to make space for the shuttle bay doors, and part of the ventral
bow section is absent to accommodate the deflector array. Unusually,
there is no concave surface in the ventral aft section.

The Warp Nacelles are attached by pylons to the port/starboard dorsal
surfaces of the Engineering hull. However, unlike the majority of
starship designs, the pylons are curved downward, so that the nacelles
are level with the ship's keel in a manner not dissimilar from the
Nebula-class. The nacelles are cuboids, wider than they are tall, and
extend past the aft edge of the Engineering hull.

As part of Star Fleet's rebuilding program, intended to replace the
ships lost in the war, the Chimera-class is constructed using
[Transporter Welding](#transporterwelding) to cut construction time. It
is built from tritanium and duranium, as is the case with most
Federation starships. The Chimera-class does not support mission
modules.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

> "I make out about a hundred blips heading right towards us."
>
> — Scattershot

Sensor Systems
--------------

The sensor systems of the Chimera-class, as would be expected, are given
higher priority than on non-scientific vessels. Power from the warp
core, no longer needed for weaponry, and advances in technology during
the war, gives the Chimera-class noticeably high sensor ranges. High
Resolution sensors have a range of 5 light-years, while Low Resolution
sensors have a range of 18 light-years. The longer-than-standard ranges
allow for more efficient mapping and scans, as well as providing greater
warning on incoming threats, which in turn provides more time to escape.

The sensor system comes with an automated adjustment feature. A
non-standard scan can be selected from a menu, and sensors will
automatically be adjusted perform that scan. Coupled with the ship's
supply of probes, this allows the ship to perform all standard
biological, astrophysical and planetological sweeps, and leaves the ship
well equipped to study previously unknown phenomena.

Computer Systems
----------------

The ship has three isolinear chip-based computer cores, used primarily
for data storage. Two of these are Avalon "Librarium" model cores,
measuring 16m tall. These are intended to serve as the primary computer
system, and so contain the majority of the processing power. The third
is a "Codicer" model core, 8m tall, which serves as a back up. The
Chimera-class can operate on this core alone if needed, although as a
precaution non-essential systems such as holodecks will be taken
off-line. These new computer cores were used because it was believed the
original computer system lacked the processing power required for a
Science vessel.

Primary data processing is performed by localised data processing units,
which make extensive use of bio-neural circuitry and gel-packs. These
are found on the Bridge, Main Engineering, Holodecks, DH offices and
Science Labs. This de-centralized processing system, present in
everything from Science Lab computer terminals to the Holodecks, is what
allows the Chimera-class to operate on one core.

Sickbay has its own dedicated computer core. This is intended to store
information on medical disorders and procedures, as well as provide
computer power for Sickbay should all three main cores fail. This core
lacks the capacity to handle the workload of the Main Computer Cores,
and so cannot be used to operate the ship.

Scientific Probes
-----------------

50 scientific probes, and a further 50 empty torpedo casings, are
carried on Chimera-class vessels. The intention is that empty casings
can be assembled as either probes or torpedoes when needed, so they are
kept unassembled.

Holographic Support Systems
---------------------------

The ship has one EMH system, which is the EMH mk4. Emitters are located
in important sections of the ship, giving the EMH access to the Bridge,
Main Engineering, Science Labs, shuttle bays, cargo bays (for use as
triage centres), holodecks, holosuites and, of course, Sickbay. Outside
of these areas the EMH cannot function.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

> "Where'd that thing come from?"
>
> — Jazz

Developed at Avalon Ship Yards, the Chimera-class incorporates an Avalon
Tempest warp core, rated at 1500 Cochranes, as standard. Cruising speed
is set at Warp 5.0, with a maximum sustainable velocity of Warp 7.0. The
Maximum Warp Speed of the Chimera-class is Warp 9.6 for 12 hours. Enough
matter and antimatter is stored to allow for missions of up to nine
years in duration.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

> "I'm more concerned with where it's going."
>
> — Cliffjumper

The Chimera-class has three impulse drive units. Two of these are on the
saucer; the third is located in the aft engineering hull. These propel
the ship at 0.24c. Although the Chimera-class is neither especially fast
nor manoeuvrable the ship's movement was frequently compared to the
grace of the Manta Ray native to Earth. Acceleration is a rate of 50
seconds from Full Stop to Full Impulse, and 90 seconds when slowing from
Full Impulse to Full Stop.

Tactical Systems
================

> "They're called 'phase pistols'. They have two settings, stun and
> kill. It would be best not to confuse them."
>
> — Malcolm Reed

The Chimera-class, as a science vessel, is not expected to engage in
combat, and has less than half the weaponry of its original design. Its
primary defence when attacked is to run away, as it lacks the armament
for sustained combat.

Defensive Shields
-----------------

With reduced power requirements due to the reduction of the weaponry,
defensive shields were given much higher priority. The shields have a
Maximum Gravitational Load of 2006 Mw and a Maximum Energy Dissipation
Rate of 5.4x10\^5 kW.

Metaphasic Shields
------------------

The Chimera-class is also equipped with a metaphasic shield generator.
This creates a low-level subspace field, which protects the ship from
radiation emissions and the like, a hazard when investigating stellar
phenomena. The metaphasic shield offers no additional protection in
combat.

Phaser Systems
--------------

Intended for defensive use only, there are 6 phaser strips. Three are
mounted on the Saucer hull (two dorsal surface, one ventral surface).
Each of these has 100 type-VIII emitters. Two strips, each consisting of
60 type-VIII emitters, are found on the ventral surface of the warp
nacelles (one strip per nacelle). The final strip, consisting of 60
emitters is found on the dorsal engineering hull surface. Each emitter
has a maximum output of 2.6 Mw, with a range of 140,000km.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

Like the phasers, the Torpedo launchers of the Chimera-class were also
dramatically cut down. There are 2 torpedo tubes, which are primarily
intended for the launch of scientific probes. One is located in the
forward Engineering hull, the other in the aft Engineering hull. The
Chimera-class carries 50 photon torpedoes, plus the 50 scientific probes
and 50 casings described above. Each torpedo tube can load and fire 4
torpedoes before reloading. Torpedoes and probes are stored adjacent to
the launchers in order to reduce the effort needed to load them.

Self-Destruct Systems
---------------------

The self-destruct system of the Chimera-class consists of the release of
safety interlocks on antimatter storage units, the collapse of the
containment field around the warp core and the detonation of any
remaining torpedoes on board the ship. This can only be activated by the
command codes of two Senior Officers serving on that ship.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

> "This is...neat!"
>
> — William The Bloody

Bridge
------

The Bridge is found on Deck 1, along with the Captain's Ready Room and
staff briefing room. The viewscreen is at the front of the Bridge, with
two consoles just behind it. These are the Ops and Conn consoles, and
resemble the curved-edge design of the Conn/Ops console of the
Defiant-class. The Viewscreen is raised so that these do not appear on
the other screen during a conversation.

The Captain sits in a chair slightly off-centre of the Bridge, to port.
The chair is large, black and extremely comfortable, and has a small
display attachment that can be swapped between the two arms. The XO's
chair, which is towards starboard, is equally black and comfortable, but
is slightly smaller than the CO's Chair.

Tactical command is on the wall to starboard, and incorporates Security
and Communications control. This is a seated station. To port is the
Engineering console, with chair and enough displays to monitor all major
systems as well as co-ordinate engineering effort across the ship. Both
of these stations are forward facing and enclosed, making for a safer
bridge.

Finally, there are three Science stations. These have enough displays
for virtually any type of scan imaginable, and each station accommodates
one science officer at a time, sitting. These are found on the wall of
the Bridge behind the Captain. All chairs are swivel chairs. The walls
are a dark grey colour, and the lighting has a slight hint of purple
that creates a slightly gothic feel.

Ready Room
----------

To the rear of Deck 01 is the Captain's Ready Room. The Captain's Ready
Room features a large desk with a large, looming swivel chair for the
Captain to sit in, incorporating a computer access terminal. It also
features a small "lounge" area, for when the Captain feels it necessary
to relax while on duty. This area includes a replicator for the
Captain's use only. Access to this room is via the Bridge, with a door
adjacent to the Science console.

Briefing Room
-------------

To the front of Deck 1 is a briefing room. The Briefing room is pretty
standard, looking much like every other briefing room an officer has
been in. A large, rectangular table occupies the majority of the room,
with a display screen built into one of the narrow walls so that
everyone in the room can see it. A single door provides access. Chairs
for the CO, XO, Department Heads and up to four others are found
alongside the table, each with its own mini-display screen, so those
attending the briefing can view the presentation at their own speed.
Access is via the Bridge, with a door to the Captain's left (adjacent to
the viewscreen).

Engineering
-----------

Main Engineering is found on decks 18 and 19. The Matter/Anti-matter
Reaction Array is mounted vertically, as this is believed to be the most
efficient method. The Matter/Anti-matter Reaction Chamber is found on
these decks. The majority of the wall space on both levels is covered in
consoles and readouts, allowing Engineers to adjust all systems on ship.

Access between the two levels is via either ladder or turbolift. There
are two small turbolifts incorporated into alcoves in Main Engineering's
walls.

The Chief Engineer's Office is found on Deck 18, accessed through Main
Engineering.

Security
--------

There is a single brig, found on deck 12. This has 10 cells. Access to
the cells is via a single entry point. Security measures include
restricted access, transport inhibitors, security fields and doors that
can be physically sealed, after it was noted that prisoners tend to
escape when power for the force fields is cut. Individual cell doors can
be sealed, if needed.

A small armoury is found on deck 07. This has side arms for the entire
crew, plus type III-b phaser rifles for the Security officers. Under
normal circumstances access to the armoury is restricted to CO, XO and
COS, although access is granted to Department Heads during Yellow or Red
Alert situations.

Sciences
--------

As would be expected on a science vessel, the Chimera-class has
extensive science facilities. There are a total of 19 laboratories on
the ship, varying in size and function, split into five groups.

The first group consists of general use labs. Labs 1 and 2 are
general-purpose laboratories, extensive equipped but lacking in
specialisation. Labs 3, 4 and 5 are biology, chemistry and physics labs
respectively.

The second group specialises in the study of space. Lab 6 is the
Astrophysics lab, intended for the study of spatial and stellar
phenomena. Lab 7 is Stellar Cartography, and so is equipped for the
mapping of space. Both of these can function during the normal operation
of the starship without interfering with other studies.

The third group, consisting of four labs, is dedicated to specific
fields of research and investigation, which tend to require a specific
subject to study: that is, they are used for studying "on-site" Lab 8 is
a Geology lab, 9 deals in Ecology, 10 handles Archaeology while 11 is
equipped for meteorological studies. When not being actively used on a
mission, they can be used as research labs independent of the ships
mission.

The next group of labs fulfil help fulfil the role of research and
development. However, they are also equipped to study any examples found
in space (for example, lab 16 can be used to study newly discovered
plants).

Lab 12 is a Cybernetics lab, helping to study and develop robotics and
prosthetics. Lab 13 is a Computer Studies lab. This helps in the
development of new computer systems, including both components and
programmes. Lab 14 is a Propulsion Systems development lab, looking into
improved and alternative means of getting from A to B. Lab 15 is a
Materials Research lab, looking at new, more useful and efficient
materials for use at large. Lab 16 is a Botany lab, dedicated to the
study of plant life.

The final grouping of labs is the Medical Research Laboratories, or
Med-Labs. These are joint ventures between the Science and Medical
departments. There are 3 labs in this group. Med-Lab 1 is a
general-purpose medical research laboratory, Med-Lab 2 is a genetics lab
and Med-Lab 3 is an exobiology laboratory.

Offices
-------

Each Department Head has an office reserved for their use. These are
usually found adjacent to the main facility for that Department (for
example, the Chief Engineer's Office is adjacent to Main Engineering).
The exceptions to this are Command (Decks 01 and 02), the CSO (Deck 06)
and the CNS (Deck 11). Offices consist of a desk, computer access
terminal, chair (for the office's owner) and standing room for about 5
people, except for the CNS's office, which has two chairs and a spookily
comfortable couch, for the needs of those requiring counselling.

Utility Systems
===============

> "We're not even supposed to have this."
>
> — Agent K

Cargo Bays
----------

Cargo bays are found on Decks 11 (Engineering hull), 13 (port and
starboard, adjacent airlocks), 23 (port and starboard, adjacent
airlocks), 25 and 26. Cargo bays on Decks 11, 25 and 26 have Cargo
transporters due to impracticality of transporting Cargo across the
ship. In extreme medical emergencies, the Cargo bays can be used as
triage centers.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

Tractor beam emitters are found in the Engineering hull of the
Chimera-class. The tractor beam as a maximum range of 18,000km although,
as with all tractor beams, this is dependent on the mass and velocity of
the object.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

There are 8 transporter rooms, coupled into 4 pairs, are located
throughout the ship. Each has 8 pads and a range of 40,000 km. Another 8
emergency transporters, each also with 8 pads, are also found on the
Chimera-class. This provides a total of 16 transporters during an
evacuation. Emergency transporters have a range of 15,000 km.

Crew Support Systems
====================

> "This is the Construct."
>
> — Morpheus

Medical Facilities
------------------

Sickbay is found on deck 8. This has 4 wards plus a medical storage bay
and a specialised computer, which is used to store medical records,
information on medical procedures and medical textbooks. The Chief
Medical Officer's office is accessed through Sickbay.

The medical computer core is notably smaller than the main Computer
cores, and lacks the power to handle the workload of the primary
computer system.

Ward 1 is intended to deal with accidents and emergencies, and so is
equipped to deal with both minor and major injuries. There are 8 beds.
Ward 1 does not have a dedicated surgical area - any patients requiring
major surgery will be taken to another ward. In the course of a day, it
is Ward 1 that will see the most activity.

Ward 2 is the Surgical Ward, where patients are prepared for and receive
surgery. There are 8 beds, plus two surgical areas.

Ward 3 is intended for post-op recovery and recuperation, and has 8
beds.

Ward 4 is set-up to accommodate races that require environments other
than M-class. Each of the 6 beds possesses an isolated environment. H,
K, and L-class environments can be created in this ward if and when
needed.

Replicators
-----------

Replicators are found in all crew quarters, although these are
low-volume replicators. High volume replicators can be found in the
bar/lounge suite.

Recreational Facilities
-----------------------

Deck 10 contains most of the ship's Recreational facilities. There is a
large combination Bar/Lounge/Restaurant, which can also be used to host
diplomatic meetings on account of the absence of dedicated diplomatic
facilities. Two Holodecks can be accessed from the deck, although these
also incorporate parts of Deck 9. There are four holosuites on Deck 9,
and another two on Deck 10.

A small Galley is attached to the Bar, intended for use during
diplomatic functions. In rare circumstances it is used for crewmembers
with special dietary requirements that cannot be met by the replicator
system. The majority of the crew use replicators for their meals.

A Gym is found on Deck 09, occupying the space above the bar/lounge
suite. This includes various exercise equipment as well as "open" areas
for activities such as aerobics or martial arts.

There is an Auditorium on Deck 14. This can serve as a performance hall
for theatrical and musical performances, as well as a Lecture and
Seminar room. In the latter of these options, it is intended for the
presentation of research to the scientific community.

A Botanical Garden is present on Deck 15. As well as providing a
pleasant alternative to the holodecks, it can be used to house samples
of plants being studied.

Quarters
--------

Accommodation is divided into three categories: Officer, Crew and Guest.
Crew quarters are the most basic, split into a lounge area (with
replicator), living area (including bed, bath and sonic shower) and
storage area (walls covered in storage units).

Officer's quarters are larger than Crew Quarters, as they include a
"Study" area required by the increased workload levelled upon Officers.

Guest Quarters are as large as Officer Quarters, but have more room to
relax due to the absence of the Study area.

Environmental systems
---------------------

Due to the use of a de-centralised environmental system, all crew
quarters and cargo bays can be adjusted into class M, H, K or L
environments. Should this system fail Main Life Support takes over.
However, this is only a back-up system, and so is limited to M class
environments.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

> "To the shuttles!"
>
> — Ultra Magnus

There are two shuttle bays on the Chimera-class. As standard, Shuttle
Bay One contains 5 Armadillo-class Shuttlecraft. Shuttle Bay Two
contains 3 Armadillo-class shuttlecraft. CO's may request to exchange
the 5 shuttlecraft of Shuttle Bay One for 2 Runabouts. In both cases, a
partitioned area of the Shuttle Bay functions as maintenance and repair
bays for the shuttles.

The Captain's Yacht is found in a hanger on decks 14 and 15, which opens
in the bottom of the saucer enabling the Yacht to drop out of the
saucer.

Someone was on a retro trip when designing the yacht, as it bears a
strong resemblance to the pioneering NX-01 starship. The front of the
craft is a saucer, with the deflector array built into the front of the
yacht. Unlike the NX-01, an engineering hull, of a kind, emerges from
the aft saucer, with the nacelles connected via pylon to the sides of
this section. Like the NX-01, the nacelles are above the main hull. The
yacht has a single deck.

Three landing gears are built into the saucer (bow, port, starboard),
with two more in the ventral aft surface of the engineering hull. This
allows for surface landings, assuming the surface is solid.

The yacht is 26.56m long, 15.91m wide and 4.19m tall. The yacht's
sensors have a high-resolution range of 0.4 light-years, with a
low-resolution range of 1.0 light-year. It is warp capable, with a
cruising speed of Warp 2, a maximum sustainable speed of Warp 3 and a
maximum speed of Warp 4 for 12 hours. The sub-light speed is 0.26c.

Four Type-IV phaser emitters are included for defensive purposes, with a
range of 75,000km and a maximum output of 1 Mw. Shields are rated as
having a maximum gravitational load of 41Mw and an Energy Dissipation
Rate of 1.9\^4kW.

Technical Specifications
========================

> "How do you define 'real'?"
>
> — Morpheus

Length
:   619.04 meters (643.56 meters with nacelles

Beam (Width)
:   373.73 meters

Height
:   118.24 meters

Decks
:   27

Officers and Crew
:   750

Command
:   5%

Engineering
:   25%

Medical
:   20%

Science
:   40%

Security
:   10%

Visiting Personnel
:   200

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   1,800

Core
:   Isolinear data core x3

Operating System
:   Starfleet Library Computer Access and Retrieval System (LCARS)

User Interface
:   MAJEL

Power Plant
:   One 1500+ cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

Cruising Velocity
:   Warp 5

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   Warp 7

Maximum Velocity
:   Warp 9.6 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.24c

Accellerate
:   50 seconds

Decellerate
:   90 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   2006 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   5.4x10\^5 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   2

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   50 photo torpedoes, 50 probes

Phasers
:   5 Type-VIII Phaser Strips

Deck Layout
===========

> "Me Swoop no find nothing."
>
> — Swoop

Deck 1
------

Bridge
Captain's Ready Room
Staff Briefing Room
Deck 2
------

XO's Office
Science Labs 1-2
Deck 3
------

Science Labs 3-5
Computer Core 01 level A
Deck 4
------

Science Labs 6-7
Computer Core 01 level B
Deck 5
------

Science Labs 8-11
Shuttle Bay 1 Open Space
Computer Core 1 level C
Deck 6
------

Science Labs 12-14
CSO's Office
Shuttle Bay 01 Observation Deck
Computer Core 01 level D
Deck 7
------

Science Labs 15-16
Shuttle Bay 01 Landing Deck
Armoury
Structural Integrity Field Generators
Deck 8
------

CMO's Office
Main Sickbay
Medical Computer Core
Med-Labs 1-3
Medical Supplies Storage Bay
Deck 9
------

Officer's Quarters
Guest Quarters
Holodecks 1-4 upper level
Holosuites 1-2
Gym
Deck 10
-------

Bar/Lounge
Galley
Holodecks 1-4 lower level and access
Holosuites 3-4
Mess Hall
Crew Quarters
Computer Core 2 Level A
Deck 11
-------

CNS's Office
Crew Quarters
Cargo Bays
Computer Core 2 Level B
Deck 12
-------

COS's Office
Brig
Shuttle Bay 2 Observation Deck
Crew Quarters
Computer Core 2 Level C
Deck 13
-------

Shuttle Bay 2 Landing Deck
Crew Quarters
Deuterium Storage Tanks
Cargo Bays
Computer Core 2 Level D
Deck 14
-------

Auditorium
Captain's Yacht Hanger Upper Level
Deck 15
-------

Botanical Garden
Captain's Yacht Hanger Lower Level
Deck 16
-------

Inertial Dampening Field Generators
Deck 17
-------

Structural Integrity Field Generators
Deck 18
-------

CE's Office
Main Engineering Upper Level
Matter Injector Array
Deck 19
-------

Main Engineering Lower Level
Antimatter Injector Array
Deck 20
-------

Computer Core 3 level A
Deck 21
-------

Computer Core 3 level B
Deck 22
-------

Replicator Raw Matter storage
Deck 23
-------

Cargo Bays
Deck 24
-------

Deflector Control
Hydroponics Bay
Deck 25
-------

Antimatter Storage Tanks
Cargo Bays
Deck 26
-------

Cargo Bays
Deck 27
-------

Warp Core Ejection System
Ships of the Class
==================

> "Do you know who this is?"
>
> — Morpheus

The prototype, when commissioned, was named the USS Chimera, after the
mythological creature. Other ships of the Chimera-class are named after
creatures of myth and legend.

Chimera
97131
Unicorn
97132
Ogopogo
97133
Mawgawr
97134
Faerie
97135
Griffin
97136
Sphinx
97137
White Buffalo
97138
Thunderbird
97139
Mokele-Mbembe
97140
Yeti
97141
Leprechaun
97142
Conclusion
==========

> "What did you see? The same as I? Appetite sated, desire indulged."
>
> — Pinhead

The Chimera-class light Researcher is designed to help in the progress
of science, and to bring the benefits of increased knowledge to the
Federation and has extensive scientific facilities to accomplish this
goal. It is ill suited to combat situations due to its light armament.
The Chimera-class, like most Star Fleet vessels, has a long operational
lifetime, and it is expected that the design will continue to serve for
some time.
