---
author:
- Bret Godfrey
date: 2 April 2002
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

As the Federation entered a new, yet tentative age of peace with the
Klingons in the years that followed the Khitomer Accord, Star Fleet
began to reassess the condition, inventory, and mission profile of its
fleet. Before that time, older designs such had been relegated to
boarder patrol and training duties while newer, more capable designs
slowly took over the role of deep space exploration. As promised in the
Khitomer Accord, Star Fleet began demilitarizing and dismantling the
outpost network along the Klingon Neutral Zone, while at the same time
reducing the size of its combat fleet. Thus many ships of the old guard
literally found themselves decommissioned over night. Ironically, this
practice created an even greater need for new ship construction.

In 2295, Star Fleet Command initiated a directive for the construction
of a new medium exploration cruiser design. Several contractors were
invited to participate in a bidding contest for the new class
designation. A combination of speed, space frame durability, tactical
effectiveness, and space exploration sciences were to be incorporated
into the over all design. In the end it was the Salazaar Shipyards of
Andoria that won the contract with their prototype, the USS Mariner.
After successful completion of the Mariner's shake down cruise, Star
Fleet placed an order for a further 50 ships of the same class. Over the
decades, the Mariner Class has more then proven its worth with a highly
decorated service record. Of special note are the astounding numbers of
successful first contact missions that the ships of this class have
carried out. Though it was specifically designed as an exploration
vessel, its mix of maneuverability, firepower, and Rodinium armor
platting proved that the ship was a valuable tactical asset during the
Tomed incident of 2311.

Though having a long and enduring design life, by 2365, the Mariner
hulls were beginning to show their age. Star Fleet enacted a retirement
plan where the older ships would be replaced as ships from newer designs
were commissioned. Over half the surviving Mariner Class ships were
deactivated by the time of the Wolf-359 debacle. In an effort to quickly
fill in the gaps caused by the Borg incursion, a retrofitting of retired
space hulls was enacted. The generous use of Titanium in the Mariner's
superstructure and hull plating was found to be a great asset in that
titanium was cheaper and in more readily accessible quantities then
Duranium or Tritanium alloys. This decreased the time index during
refit, while at the same time aloud Star Fleet to use the newer alloys
on new ship construction. After completion of the first modernized hull,
the USS Keararge ( NCC-2367), Star Fleet came to the conclusion that the
over all enhancements were so divergent from the original design, that
they deserved a designation all their own. Thus the Kearsarge Class
medium cruiser was born from the ashes of the soon to be scrapped
Mariner.

Structure and Construction
==========================

In appearance, the Kearsarge is of a standard configuration. The saucer
section is attached to the secondary hull via a front dorsal neck
mounting, while the twin warp nacelles are fitted to the aft section of
the secondary hull via upward turned pylons.

The majority of the Kearsarge's space frame is made up of pure titanium
with three separate framed hull layers. Once the pluming and electrical
systems were in place and covered by hull plating, titanium fiber
enriched duroplast foam was pressure injected into the spaces between
the hull layers for insulation and radiation shielding. The outer most
hull has an additional 4.5 cm layer of homogeneously rolled rodinium
armor plating. Rodinium, the hardest known substance in Federation
Science, was until that time primarily used for shielding on static
structures such as an orbital Outpost or Starbase. Though its heavy mass
prevents it from use in Starship structural components, it works well as
a hull layer armoring against physical penetration or focused energy
attacks. Upon completion, a nonreflecting thermo coat of battleship-grey
was electro-magnetically bonded to the rodinium hull, giving the ship a
dull finish. On average, the over all hull thickness of a completed
space frame is 30.0cm.

As was the practice of the time, during an extreme emergency, the saucer
section was designed to be jettisoned from the secondary hull and act as
a large life boat for the crew. In such an occurrence, the impulse motor
on the aft of the saucer section would act as the main propulsion drive
and power generating plant. Explosive bolts placed strategically along
stress points with in the neck mount physically sever the saucer section
from the secondary hull. Once separated, the saucer can not be
reattached to the secondary hull with out the services of a dry dock
repair facility. Although this was a common design feature, there are
only two instances of ships from any class performing such a feat.
Maximum impulse speed of the Saucer section with the secondary hull
jettisoned is 0.15 c.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

Along the hull of the ship are located a total of 200 sensors used for
navigational, remote sensing, scientific, and tactical acquisition data
collection. The sensory suite is designed for both active and passive
data collection. In normal space flight operations, both methods are
automatically employed simultaneously, though they can be reconfigured
as active or passive only. Active sensory grids are echo collection
devices that transmit a pulse signal, usually radio, optical, infrared,
or subspace, and then interpret the rebounded signal in forms of
cohesive data. Passive sensory grids "listen" for physical and subspace
signals that are given off by either a natural or artificial object.

The original sensory equipment installed on the Mariner Class had a
Standard high resolution range of approximately 2.5 light years in high
resolution, and 8.5 light years in low resolution. However, the current
sensory package on the Kearsarge has a high resolution of 4.4 light
years, and a low resolution range of 14.9 light years. Both figures are
highly dependant on the current spatial conditions that the ship is
experiencing. If the situation arises, the sensor grid can be used as an
ECM device, effectively jamming most types of radio and subspace
communications and navigational frequencies with decreasing
effectiveness to a distance of 700,000km, depending on local
relativistic conditions, though this will also render the ship's own
subspace communications inoperable.

In addition, the Kearsarge has on hand a usual complement of 25
prededicated scientific probes, and another 25 empty torpedo casings
ready for scientific or tactical augmentation.

Computer Systems
----------------

The Mariner was designed and built with one large and one smaller
multitronic computer cores. The primary core was located in the center
of decks 3, 4, and 5 of the saucer section, with the smaller back up
core in the center aft of the secondary hull in deck-12. The smaller
core housed compressed archive data as a means of back up storage. Even
though the ship class has seen many software and hardware upgrades in
its service, the original bi-core design has been maintained. The
current refit of the Kearsarge utilizes a single standard M-6 Isolinear
core, with the M-2 Multitronic Auxiliary Core. Both computer systems are
managed by the LCARS version 1.2, and are interlinked with standard ODN
conduits to the various quadratronic sub processors through out the
ship. The function of the secondary core has largely been relocated to
simple information back up storage. In an emergency, it can be
reconfigured to operate most of the Kearsarge's primary systems such as
navigation, propulsion, weapons, and life support, though on a limited
capacity. It should be noted that the secondary core has neither the
computative speed, nor the operational data storage to maintain any of
the three holosuites installed as crew recreational facilities.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

For reasons of simplicity in construction, the Kearsarge utilizes a
Class-VII warp core. It is similar to, but 25% smaller then the core
designed for the Excelsior Class. To save space, the core is mounted
horizontally along the centerline of the ship's X-axis running for to
aft with in the secondary hull. The ejection protocols happen with in a
3 second time interval because of the sequences of explosive separation
and ejection. During a warp core breach, the core is ejected through a
service hatch directly aft from the Kearsarge's secondary hull. Though
the Kearsarge has kept the original warp core configuration, it has an
enhanced and upgraded multi port fuel injector system, along with self
modulating field coils in the nacelles. The original warp core for the
Mariner was rated at 1270 cochranes with a max velocity of Warp-8.5 for
12 hours, a max sustainable velocity of warp-6, and a cruising speed of
warp-5. The current Kearsarge warp core is rated at 1500+ cochranes,
with a maximum velocity of warp-9.5 for 12 hours, a maximum sustainable
velocity of warp-7.2, and a standard cruising speed of warp-5.

NOTE: Though the original Mariner warp core was designed before the
current Subspace Protection Act requirements, the newly rebuilt
Kearsarge warp propulsion system has been certified as SPA safe.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

As can be expected, there have been many improvements in impulse
propulsion designs in the last 80 years. Although the Kearsarge's sub
light speed is the same as the Mariner, it has a 30% greater
acceleration rate and a 75% increase in efficiency. The dual vent
impulse drive is mounted directly aft of, and attached to the saucer
section. The impulse drive is designed to propel the ship up to and
including 0.25c, with an acceleration rate from zero to 0.25c of 20
seconds, and a deceleration rate from 0.25c to zero in 40 seconds.

Slush deuterium fuel for the impulse drive is stored in three self
pressurizing and stabilizing, two primary tanks and one auxiliary. The
two primary tanks are located on apposing sides of the Impulse Motor,
Deck-6 of the Saucer Section. The auxiliary deuterium tank is located in
the center portion of Deck-12 in the Secondary Hull.

Tactical Systems
================

Defensive Shields
-----------------

After extensive refit, the Kearsarge's shielding system consists of
eight shield generators located at key points along the space frame.
Each generator is comprised of nine 24MW graviton polarity sources
feeding into a single 470 milliconchrane subspace field distortion
amplifier. During alert status, the shield generators can combine to
provide a continuous gravitation load of 2016 MW with a maximum primary
energy dissipation rate of 5.5 x 10\^5. Where as the Mariner's shields
were rated at only half the gravitational load and energy dissipation
rate.

Phaser Systems
--------------

In its original configuration, the Mariner was outfitted with a mix of
two separate phaser systems. It mounted a total of six Type-VIII phasers
in three banks of two. Each bank covered a firing arc of 60-degree
elevation and azimuth. In addition, there were six Type-VII phasers,
again mounted in 3 banks of two, covering any gap in arc left by the
Type-VIII weapons system.

During the Keararge refit, this bulky and inefficient weapons system was
completely removed and replaced with a simpler, more powerful tactical
system. It was re-equipped with the now standard Type-IX phaser strip
array. There are a total of nine array strips placed along the space
frame to give a near perfect 360-degree firing arc in both azimuth and
elevation. All of the Type-IX phaser arrays used on the Kearsarge is
rated at maximum beam energy of 3.8 MW with a maximum tactical range of
225,000km.

Phaser Arrays \#1-2 are located in the upper forward saucer section on
Deck-4 and cover the forward port, forward, and forward starboard firing
arcs. Both arrays are outfitted with 125 emitters each.

Phaser Arrays \#3-4 are located in the lower forward saucer section on
Deck-6 and cover the forward port, forward, and forward starboard firing
arcs. Both arrays are outfitted with 125 emitters each.

Phaser Arrays \#5-6 are located on the outer broadsides of the port and
starboard warp nacelles. Both arrays are outfitted with 20 emitters
each.

Phaser Array \#7 is mounted in the aft section of the secondary hull
just above the shuttlebay on deck-12 and is outfitted with 10 emitters.
It covers the aft firing arc.

Phaser Arrays \#8-9 are mounted on the bottom of the secondary hull on
deck-14. Array \#8 covers the lower port broadside, while the \#9 array
covers the lower starboard broadside. Both arrays are outfitted with 10
emitters respectively.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

Although the Kearsarge's launching system is highly modified, it has
retained the original three photon torpedo launch systems lay out,
taking up the entire space of Deck-8 inside the dorsal neck mount.
During the refit, the old "Manual Only" loader system for all three
launchers were replaced with an automated loading system. This reduced
the number of personnel needed to maintain and man the launchers, with
the added bonus of shortening the response time. Two launchers are
situated facing directly forward, while a third launcher is mounted to
fire directly aft. All three launchers are mounted in such a way as to
allow independent launching of torpedoes. Each launcher has the
capability of launching a steady stream of torpedoes with a firing rate
of 20 torpedoes per minute, at a maximum range of 3,500,000km.

All three launchers are controlled from a single fire control room known
as the "Torpedo Room" located on Deck-9 inside the dorsal neck mount.
The Torpedo Room is separated into two sections. The first section
handles the firing control and targeting of the photon torpedoes, while
the second section is a maintenance area where the torpedoes can be
maintained or reconfigured. Also located on Deck-9 is the Torpedo
Bunker, which is the main storage area for the usual complement of the
150 photon torpedoes, 25 scientific probes, and 25 empty torpedo
casings.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

Bridge
------

The Bridge is of a similar layout to that of the Excelsior Class Heavy
Cruiser, though 25% smaller. At center is the Captain's chair, with the
Helmsman and Navigator's seats directly in front. Although there is no
designated seat for the Executive Officer, it is usually assumed the
Exec is manning one of the swing position duty posts while on the Bridge
such as OPS, or Tactical. The Bridge is located at the center of Deck-1.

Auxiliary Control
-----------------

The Auxiliary Control Room is located in the center of Deck-4 of the
saucer section. It is continually manned and maintained. In the event of
a ship wide catastrophe, all the major ship's functions and navigation
can be controlled from here.

Armory
------

The Ship's Armory is located adjacent to the Brig on Deck-14. The Armory
is stocked with a usual complement of 50 Type-I hand phasers, 100
Type-II hand phasers, 100 Type-III phaser rifles, 75 sets of kevlex body
armor, 120 Anastazine gas grenades, 120 concussion grenades, and 120
photon grenades. Access to the Armory is highly restricted to that of
the ship's CO, XO, all the Department Heads, and the Security staff, and
is granted only after a DNA palm print scan.

To protect against a hostile boarding of the ship, there are also
several weapons lockers strategically placed in prominent areas of the
ship. These areas include the Auxiliary Control, Bridge, Brig, Main
Engineering, all the Transporter Rooms, the Shuttlebay, and the Torpedo
Room. During normal operations, only the Command and Security staff (as
stated for the Armory) may gain access to the lockers. During yellow or
red alert status, any ship's crewmember may gain access via DNA thumb
print verification. Each locker contains 12 Type-II hand phasers.

Brig
----

Located on Deck-14, the Brig is comprised of five cells, a common
"watch" area and COS's office. The "watch" area is nothing more then a
duty station in which a security officer can stand watch over the
prisoners. Each cell is equipped with a small "drum" dispenser for the
secure transfer of items and food both to and from the cell. The drum
has an opening on only one section of its curved surface, and is made
out of 0.5cm solid duranium, which in turn is mounted to a framework of
solid duranium that extends 25.0cm with in the bulkhead of the wall.
Once an object is placed with in the drum, the drum is rotated so that
its opened section "faces" the opposite side of the wall. For reasons of
security, the controls for the drum dispenser are placed on the "watch"
duty station and not with in the detention cell itself. This is to
prevent a prisoner from escaping his cell by using the drum dispenser to
gain access to his cell controls. There is a single food replicator
mounted near the "watch" duty station and is totally inaccessible to
cell occupants.

Also housed in the Brig is the ship's vault. The vault is a secured
storage compartment which can be used to safely store information and
evidence in a criminal investigation, sensitive mission specific
material or information that can not be stored in the ship's cargo bay
or the ship's computers, currency, or personal items for the crew and
passengers. The vault is separated into a safe, and 100 locked boxes.
Either the safe, or the boxes can be individually preset to its own lock
combination and climate controls. Access to the vault is granted only by
senior officer identification. This identification is verified by voice
print, optical retina scan, and palm print. All three must be successful
for the senior officer to gain access to the vault. The Brig is located
on Deck-14.

Chartroom
---------

The ship's Chart Room is located aft of the Main Bridge on Deck-1. The
Chart Room is comprised of three main viewing displays and fifteen
smaller ones, each with their own console. The Chart Room is basically
an interactive library in which astrophysical data is prioritized,
catalogued, and studied for scientific, navigational, or tactical needs.
Although this room is designed as a navigational aid, its primary use is
for the scientific study of interstellar objects. In times of war, the
Chart Room can be easily reconfigured as a War Room in the event that a
ranking fleet officer should wish to use the ship as his flag ship
during strategic operations. Using the various monitors at his disposal,
a flotilla commander can keep track of the ebb and flow of battle from
different perspectives, giving him an important aid in dictating the
tactics of his overall command.

Main Engineering
----------------

Main Engineering is located near the center of the secondary hull on
Decks-10-11-12. On either end of the compartment is a single three man
turbolift which only operates with in Main Engineering itself. The warp
core lays horizontal along the floor of Deck-12 and runs from fore to
aft. The Chief Engineer's office is located on the forward end of the
Engineering compartment on Deck-10 and is situated so that the Chief
Engineer can oversee the operations of his department.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

The main cargo bays are located in the lower aft section of the
Secondary Hull between the shuttlebays, and the main deflector dish.
There are four cargo holds in total. Each cargo bay is equipped with two
entrances, one opening towards outer space for offloading via work bee,
shuttlecraft, or space dock. The second entrance is a duel access
airlock opening into the ship's corridor. The airlock acts as a buffer
between the cargo hold and the rest of the ship. Each cargo hold is
compartmentalized, and can be configured to provide either a H, K, L, M,
N, or N(2) environment for the safe storage of perishable cargo or to
house life forms that exist in other terrestrial environments other then
Class-M. This design gives the ship the capability of storing perishable
cargo or housing life forms in their proper environment.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

There are four tractor beam projectors located on the four outer corners
of the space frame. Though they are meant for towing, they can be easily
reconfigured as a repulser beam. In addition; the two aft tractor beams
are designed to be able to tractor a damaged or escaping shuttle craft
into the safety of the shuttlebay. All four tractor beam emitters are
rigged so that an object can be "walked" into the desired position. For
example: If a shuttlecraft is located foreword of the ship, the crewman
manning OPS can lock onto the shuttle craft, and bring it far enough aft
so that the aft tractor beams can haul it into the shuttlebay. Effective
range of the tractor beams is 30,000km, depending on local relativistic
conditions.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

There are a total of 7 transporters designed into the Kearsarge's deck
plan. There are two standard six pad transporters, one port and one
starboard in the saucer section. In addition, there are two ten pad
emergency transporters. One is located near sickbay in the saucer
section, and the other is positioned with in the secondary hull. There
are three cargo transporters, one in each of the primary cargo holds.
Ranges of the standard transporters are 40,000km, while that of the
emergency and cargo transporters are only 15,000km respectively. This
transporter range is roughly double that of the Mariner's original
transporter system.

Turbolifts
----------

There are 7 operational turbolifts. Turbolift-1 is located in the center
of the Saucer Section and has access from Deck-1 of the Saucer all the
way to Deck-14 of the Secondary Hull. Turbolift-2 is also located in the
center of the Saucer, parallel with Turbolift-1, and has access from
Deck-2 of the Saucer through Deck-14 of the Secondary Hull. Turbolifts-2
and 3 have access from Deck-3 through Deck-6 of the Saucer Section, and
are located port and starboard respectively. Turbolift-7 is a cargo
turbolift. It is located in the aft section of the Saucer and has access
from Deck-3 through Deck-14 of the Secondary Hull, and can traverse to
each of the three main Cargo Holds.

Crew Support Systems
====================

Crew Quarters
-------------

When compared to more modern star ships, crew quarters are rather
cramped. Enlisted, NE, and Junior Officers are billeted in pairs, each
sharing a small common lounge area and bathing facilities. The lounge is
equipped with a dining booth module, and a work station that can double
as an entertainment center. The bathroom is equipped with a sink,
toilet, and a sonic shower. The crewmen each receive a separate bedroom
which is only large enough for a twin bed, a dresser, and a small
closet. Senior Officers fair slightly better in that they do not have to
share their living space with another officer. But their stateroom,
sleeping arrangement, and bathing facilities are of the same design as
the Junior Officers. The Captain, Executive Officer, and visiting
V.I.P.'s fair much better. Each has a dining module roughly 25% larger
then the junior officers, a bathroom with a whirlpool bath/ sonic
shower, and a bedroom large enough for a walk in closet, a full sized
bed, and a large work/entertainment station. Only the Captain, Executive
Officer, and V.I.P. quarters are outfitted with food replicators similar
to the ones found in either of the crew lounges.

Forecastle Lounge
-----------------

There are two crew lounges, the Forecastle, and the Fantail. The
Forecastle Lounge is located in the forward most part of the saucer
section on Deck-5. This is usually considered as the Junior Officer,
Enlisted and NE ranks lounge. Under usual conditions, there is a movie
shown on the large display screen twice a week for the crew's enjoyment,
although programming is subject to Captain's discretion. Also located in
the Forecastle Lounge is a well stocked and fully equipped game locker.
Stocked inside is a wide range of portable table top games for the crew
to use at their leisure. The locker may be stocked with such games as
three dimensional chess, holo-battleship, and Fizbit.

Fantail Lounge
--------------

The Fantail lounge is located on the aft most section of Deck-6. It is
smaller, and has a minor increase in creature comforts when compared to
the Forecastle. As such, it is usually considered as the command staff
and VIP lounge.

Holosuites
----------

During the Kearsarge's refit, many of the modernized crew support
systems used less volume, power, and computer resources then the
antiquated systems they were replacing. This afforded the Kearsarge the
luxery of obtaining three Holosuites, one on either side of the
Forecastle on Deck-5.

Gymnasium
---------

There is a small gymnasium located on the lower aft section of Deck-8.
It is equipped with a sparing wring for boxing/wrestling/fencing or
other forms of hand to hand combat, and nautilus machinery to keep the
crew in peek physical condition. Should the situation arise, the
Gymnasium's equipment can be easily stored, thus opening up the room's
area to be used as an auditorium or act as an auxiliary storage room.

Galley
------

Located near the center of Deck-4 is the ship's Galley. At the time of
the Mariner's construction contract, replicator technology was just
starting to come of age. Although capable of reproducing a variety of
food selections, many starships of the era were equipped with both a
replicator system, and a fully functioning Galley. As replicator
technology became more advanced, the importance of the Galley was
reduced. Currently, the Kearsarge's only Galley duties are that
specified for the Captain's and Senior Officer's mess, formal social
functions, emergency rationing of food during a crisis, and the
immediate dietary needs specific of visitors and crew who's nutritional
requirements can not be supported by the replicator system. Food stuffs
for the Galley are stored in three separate fully compartmentalized
pantries, each compartment equipped with their own stasis field
generators to preserve freshness.

Because of power and equipment requirement factors during the refit, it
was decided that the new and improved replicator units would be limited
to the original locations of the antiquated units they were replacing.
These areas include: the Brig, both the Forecastle and Fantail crew
lounges, the Captain's, XO's, and VIP's quarters, Main Engineering,
Sickbay, the Shuttlebay, and the Transporter Rooms.

Medical Facilities
------------------

The ship's Sickbay is located on Deck-5, in the very center of the
saucer section, and is the most highly protected section in the entire
ship. Sickbay is comprised of two examination rooms separated by a
surgical room, which in turn is also bordered by a recovery room. Each
examination room is outfitted with two biobeds. The surgical room is
similarly outfitted with two bio beds, which are in turn modified
specifically for delicate surgical procedures. The recovery room is
outfitted with twelve bio beds that are designed more for a patient's
comfort and recovery. In addition, there is an emergency aid station
located on every deck near the turbolift entrance. Each aid station is
nothing more then an equipment locker housing three antigrav gurneys,
and two fully stocked emergency first aid kits.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

As stated before, the shuttlecraft landing bay is located aft of the
secondary hull. The launch bay is comprised of a double set of doors as
a safe guard against mechanical failure or damage suffered from combat.
The Keararge's Shuttlebay is large enough to handle the maintenance and
offloading requirements for a standard complement of five shuttle craft.
If a mission requires the use of a runabout, three shuttle craft may be
swapped for the use of one runabout. The bay is capable of launching two
shuttle craft at a time (or one runabout). During normal operations, as
the double bay doors are opened, a level-4 force field is erected to
keep the shuttlebay's atmosphere inside the ship while allowing for the
safe launch or retrieval of shuttlecraft.

Technical Specifications
========================

Length
:   350 meters

Beam (Width)
:   137 meters

Height
:   60.2 meters

Decks
:   14

Officers and Crew
:   375

Command
:   25

Engineering
:   75

Medical
:   15

Science
:   200

Security
:   60

Visiting Personnel
:   60

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   2000

Core
:   M-6 Isolinear Data Core, M-2 Multitronic Data Core

Operating System
:   Starfleet Library Computer Access and Retrieval System (LCARS)

User Interface
:   MAJEL

Power Plant
:   One 1500+ cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

Crusing Velocity
:   Warp 5

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   Warp 7.2

Maximum Velocity
:   Warp 9.5 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.25c

Accellerate
:   20 seconds

Decellerate
:   40 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   2016 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   5.5x10\^5 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   3

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   150 photon torpedoes, 25 probes, 25 empty unequipped casings

Phasers
:   -   9 Type-IX Phaser Strips

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Bridge
Chart Room
Conference Room-A
Ready Room
Deck 2
------

CO's quarters
XO's quarters
VIP quarters
Deck 3
------

Conference Room-B
Emergency Transporter \#1
Fan Tail Officer's Lounge
Food Locker \#1-3
Galley
Officer's quarters
Primary Computer Core Level-1
Shield Emitters \#1-2
Deck 4
------

Auxiliary Control
Auxiliary Life Support
Auxiliary Power
Crew Quarters
Forecastle Crew Lounge
Phaser Array \#1-2 (forward port, and forward starboard)
Primary Computer Core Level-2
Sickbay
Deck 5
------

Auxiliary Sensory Grid
Crew Quarters
Docking Airlock \#1-2 (Port and Starboard)
Holosuite \#1
Primary Computer Core Level-3
Primary Transporter Rooms \#1-2 (port and starboard)
Deck 6
------

Auxiliary Cargo Holds 1-2
Crew Quarters
Deuterium Storage Tanks A and B (port and starboard)
Impulse Drive (aft)
Phaser Array \#3-4 (forward port, and forward starboard)
Tractor Beam Emitters \#1-2 (Forward-Port and Forward-Starboard)
Deck 7
------

Emergency Transporter \#2
Photon Torpedo Room
Photon Torpedo Bunker
Deck 8
------

Photon Torpedo Launchers \#1-2-3 (\#1-2 for, \#3 aft)
Deck 9
------

Archeology Lab
Geophysics Lab
Meteorology Lab
Primary Communications Array
Quantum Mechanics Lab
Deck 10
-------

Botanical Lab
Biochemistry Lab
Biophysics Lab
Main Deflector Dish
Main Engineering Level-1
Primary Life Support
Shield Emitters \#3-4
Xenobiology Lab
Deck 11
-------

Cargo Transporter \#1-2
Main Deflector Dish
Main Engineering Level-2
Mechanical Engineering Lab
Primary Cargo Hold \#1-2
Deck 12
-------

Auxiliary Computer Core
Cargo Transporter \#3
Cybernetics Lab
Deuterium Storage Tank-C
Main Engineering Level-3
Phaser Array \#7 (aft)
Primary Cargo Hold \#3
Shield Emitters \#5-6
Shuttlebay
Deck 13
-------

Cargo Transporter \#4
Fusion Reactors
Primary Cargo Hold \#4
Shuttlebay
Waste Reclamation
Deck 14
-------

Armory
Brig
Gymnasium
Holosuites \#2-3
Phaser Array \#8-9 (port, and starboard)
Shield Emitters \#7-8
Tractor Beam Emitters \#3-4
Ships of the Class
==================

Kearsarge
2367
Baldric
2368
Beowulf
2369
Calypso
2370
Celestial
2371
Dutchman
2372
Iron Horse
2373
Marblehead
2374
Extraneous
2355
Redundant
2359
Rhetorical
2360
Rustolium
2361
Conclusion
==========

Even though new ship construction is starting to cover the gap left in
the fleet after the two Borg incursions and the Dominion war, the
Kearsarge has proven its metal, adding on to the history of an already
illustrious service career.

Illustrations
=============

These other visual representations of the Kearsarge are available.

![ Kearsarge, Top View ](images/tm/kearsarge-top.jpg)

![ Kearsarge, Side View ](images/tm/kearsarge-side.png)

![ Kearsarge, Aft ](images/tm/kearsarge-aft.jpg)

![ Kearsarge, Top View ](images/tm/kearsarge-top.jpg)

![ Kearsarge, Bottom View ](images/tm/kearsarge-bottom.jpg)
