---
author:
- Bret Godfrey
date: 13 June 2002
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

> "To be, or not to be: that is the question."
>
> — Hamlet, Act-III, Scene-I

As the Federation entered a new, yet tentative age of peace with the
Klingons in the years that followed the Khitomer Accord, Star Fleet
began to reassess the condition, inventory, and mission profile of its
fleet. Before that time, older designs such had been relegated to
boarder patrol and training duties while newer, more capable designs
slowly took over the role of deep space exploration. As promised in the
Khitomer Accord, Star Fleet began demilitarizing and dismantling the
outpost network along the Klingon Neutral Zone, while at the same time
reducing the size of its combat fleet. Thus many ships of the old guard
literally found themselves decommissioned over night. Ironically, this
practice created an even greater need for new ship construction.

In 2295, Star Fleet Command initiated a directive for the construction
of a new medium exploration cruiser design. Several contractors were
invited to participate in a bidding contest for the new class
designation. A combination of speed, space frame durability, tactical
effectiveness, and space exploration sciences were to be incorporated
into the over all design. In the end it was the Salazaar Shipyards of
Andoria that won the contract with their prototype, the USS Mariner.
After successful completion of the Mariner's shake down cruise, Star
Fleet placed an order for a further 50 ships of the same class. Though
it was specifically designed as an exploration vessel, its mix of
maneuverability, firepower, and Rodinium armor platting proved that the
ship was a valuable tactical asset.

Structure and Construction
==========================

> "To the wet sea-boy in an hour so rude: With all appliances and means
> to boot."
>
> — Henry IV, Part-2, Act-III, Scene-I

In appearance, the Mariner is of a standard configuration. The saucer
section is attached to the secondary hull via a front dorsal neck
mounting, while the twin warp nacelles are fitted to the aft section of
the secondary hull via upward turned pylons.

The majority of the Mariner's space frame is made up of pure titanium
with three separate framed hull layers. Once the pluming and electrical
systems were in place and covered by hull plating, titanium fiber
enriched duroplast foam was pressure injected into the spaces between
the hull layers for insulation and radiation shielding. The outer most
hull has an additional 4.5 cm layer of homogeneously rolled rodinium
armor plating. Rodinium, the hardest known substance in Federation
Science, was until that time primarily used for shielding on static
structures such as an orbital Outpost or Starbase. Though its heavy mass
prevents it from use in Starship structural components, it works well as
a hull layer armoring against physical penetration or focused energy
attacks. Upon completion, a nonreflecting thermo coat of battleship-grey
was electro-magnetically bonded to the rodinium hull, giving the ship a
dull finish. On average, the over all hull thickness of a completed
space frame is 30.0cm.

During an extreme emergency, the saucer section was designed to be
jettisoned from the secondary hull and act as a large life boat for the
crew. In such an occurrence, the impulse motor on the aft of the saucer
section would act as the main propulsion drive and power generating
plant. Explosive bolts placed strategically along stress points with in
the neck mount physically sever the saucer section from the secondary
hull. Once separated, the saucer can not be reattached to the secondary
hull with out the services of a dry dock repair facility. Maximum
impulse speed of the Saucer section with the secondary hull jettisoned
is 0.15 c.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

> "Alas, poor Yorick, I knew him well! A fellow of infinite jest, of
> most excellent fancy..."
>
> — Hamlet, Act-V, Scene-1

Along the hull of the ship are located a total of 135 sensors used for
navigational, remote sensing, scientific, and tactical acquisition data
collection. The sensory suite is designed for both active and passive
data collection. In normal space flight operations, both methods are
automatically employed simultaneously, though they can be reconfigured
as active or passive only. Active sensory grids are echo collection
devices that transmit a pulse signal, usually radio, optical, infrared,
or subspace, and then interpret the rebounded signal in forms of
cohesive data. Passive sensory grids "listen" for physical and subspace
signals that are given off by either a natural or artificial object.

The sensory equipment installed on the Mariner Class has a high
resolution range of approximately 2.5 light years, and 8.5 light years
in low resolution. Both figures are highly dependant on the current
spatial conditions that the ship is experiencing. If the situation
arises, the sensor grid can be used as an ECM device, effectively
jamming most types of radio and subspace communications and navigational
frequencies with decreasing effectiveness to a distance of 500,000km,
depending on local relativistic conditions, though this will also render
the ship's own subspace, and radio communication and navigational
frequencies inoperable.

In addition, the Mariner has on hand a usual complement of 25
pre-dedicated scientific probes, and another 25 empty torpedo casings
ready for scientific or tactical augmentation.

Computer Systems
----------------

The Mariner is designed and built with a dual computer core system. It
is outfitted with an M-6 Duotronic primary core, and an M-2 Duotronic
secondary core. The primary core is located in the center of decks 3, 4,
and 5 of the saucer section, with the smaller back up core in the center
aft of the secondary hull in deck-12. The function of the secondary core
has largely been relocated to simple information back up storage. In an
emergency, it can be reconfigured to operate most of the Mariner's
primary systems such as navigation, propulsion, weapons, and life
support, though on a limited capacity.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

> "Gentle breath of yours my sails must fill, or else my project fails."
>
> — The Tempest, Epilogue

The Mariner utilizes a Class-VII warp core. It is similar to, but 25%
smaller then the core designed for the Excelsior Class. To save space,
the core is mounted horizontally along the centerline of the ship's
Z-axis running for to aft with in the secondary hull. The ejection
protocols happen with in a 3 second time interval because of the
sequences of explosive separation and ejection. During a warp core
breach, the core is ejected through a service hatch directly aft from
the Mariner's secondary hull. The warp core for the Mariner is rated at
900 cochranes with a max velocity of TOS-Warp-9.6 for 12 hours, a max
sustainable velocity of TOS-Warp-8.5, and a cruising speed of
TOS-Warp-5.5.

NOTE: Comparison of TOS (OME) warp values and the more modern TNG-VOY
warp values can be found at:http://www.star-fleet.com/ed/Warp-chart.htm

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

> "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!"
>
> — Richard III, Act-V, Scene-IV

The dual vent impulse drive is mounted directly aft of, and attached to
the saucer section. The impulse drive is designed to propel the ship up
to and including 0.25c, with an acceleration rate from zero to 0.25c of
29 seconds, and a deceleration rate from 0.25c to zero in 57 seconds.

Slush deuterium fuel for the impulse drive is stored in three self
pressurizing and stabilizing, two primary tanks and one auxiliary. The
two primary tanks are located on apposing sides of the Impulse Motor,
Deck-6 of the Saucer Section. The auxiliary deuterium tank is located in
the center portion of Deck-12 in the Secondary Hull.

Tactical Systems
================

> "Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of
> outrageous fortune or to take arms against a sea of troubles..."
>
> — Hamlet, Act-III, Scene-I

Defensive Shields
-----------------

The shielding system of the Mariner consists of eight shield generators
located at key points along the space frame. Each generator is comprised
of nine 18MW graviton polarity sources feeding into a single 352
milliconchrane subspace field distortion amplifier. During alert status,
the shield generators can combine to provide a continuous gravitation
load of 2016 MW with a maximum primary energy dissipation rate of 2.0 x
10\^5.

Phaser Systems
--------------

The Mariner is outfitted with a mix of two separate phaser systems.
Being the primary phaser system, the Type-VIII's are typically mounted
in the forward position with Type-VII's covering the broadsides and aft.
Both systems are designed to have independent firing control. Regardless
of Type, each phaser bank is equipped with its own fusion power pack
which can be operated separate from the rest of the ship's systems, or
they can draw their energy directly from the warp core via the main
power couplings. Each fusion power pack has a recharge rate of two
hours, and can operate a phaser bank at full beam intensity for no
longer then 15 seconds between recharging cycles.

The Mariner has a total of six Type-VIII phaser emitters mounted in
three separate banks of two. Each bank covers a firing arc of 60 degrees
azimuth and elevation. One bank is located in the lower forward section
of the saucer covering the forward arc while the second and third banks
are on the upper saucer section covering the forward-port and
forward-starboard arcs respectively. Each of the Type-VIII emitters are
rated for a maximum energy output of 2.6 MW at a range of 150,000 km.

The Type-VII phaser emitters are also mounted in three separate banks of
two, with a similar arc of 60 degrees azimuth and elevation coverage.
The first two banks are mounted on the underside of the saucer section,
one facing port, and the second facing to starboard. The third bank is
mounted in the very aft section of the secondary hull just above the
shuttlebay covering the aft firing arc. Each of the Type-VII emitters
are rated for a maximum energy output of 1.3 MW at a range of 75,000 km.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

The Mariner mounts a triple photon torpedo launcher system which takes
up the entire space of Deck-8 inside the dorsal neck mount. Two
launchers are situated facing directly forward, while a third launcher
is mounted to fire directly aft. All three launchers are mounted in such
a way as to allow independent launching of torpedoes.

Because of developmental problems with a newer automatic photon torpedo
loading system, it was decided to outfit the Mariner with the standard
manually operated loading system. This reduced the firing rate of the
torpedoes, but greatly increased the accuracy of the launch along with a
reduced probability of a torpedo misfire. All three launchers are
controlled from a single fire control room known as the "Torpedo Room",
located on Deck-7 inside the dorsal neck mount. The Torpedo Room is
separated into two sections. The first section handles the firing
control and targeting of the photon torpedoes, while the second section
is a maintenance area where the torpedoes can be maintained or
reconfigured. Also located on Deck-7 is the Torpedo Bunker, which is the
main storage area for the usual complement of the 150 photon torpedoes,
25 scientific probes, and 25 empty torpedo casings.

Each of the three torpedo launchers has a designed rate of fire of 8
torpedoes per minute with an effective range of 2,630,000 km.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

> "I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips, straining upon the
> start. The game's afoot! Follow your spirit...."
>
> — Henry V, Act-III, Scene-I

Bridge
------

The Bridge is of a similar layout to that of the Excelsior Class Heavy
Cruiser, though 25% smaller. At center is the Captain's chair, with the
Helmsman and Navigator's seats directly in front. Although there is no
designated seat for the Executive Officer, it is usually assumed the
Exec is manning one of the auxiliary duty stations located through out
the Bridge. The Bridge is located at the center of Deck-1

Auxiliary Control
-----------------

The Auxiliary Control Room is located in the center of Deck-4 of the
saucer section. It is continually manned and maintained. In the event of
a ship wide catastrophe, all the major ship's functions and navigation
can be controlled from here.

Armory
------

The Ship's Armory is located adjacent to the Brig on Deck-14. The Armory
is stocked with a usual complement of 50 Type-I hand phasers, 100
Type-II hand phasers, 100 Type-III phaser rifles, 75 sets of body armor,
120 Anastazine gas grenades, 120 concussion grenades, and 120 photon
grenades. Access to the Armory is highly restricted to that of the
ship's CO, XO, all the Department Heads, and the Security staff, and is
granted only after a DNA palm print scan.

To protect against a hostile boarding of the ship, there are also
several weapons lockers strategically placed in prominent areas of the
ship. These areas include the Auxiliary Control, Bridge, Brig, Main
Engineering, all the Transporter Rooms, the Shuttlebay, and the Torpedo
Room. During normal operations, only the Command and Security staff (as
stated for the Armory) may gain access to the lockers. During yellow or
red alert status, any ship's crewmember may gain access via DNA thumb
print verification. Each locker contains 12 Type-II hand phasers.

Brig
----

Located on Deck-14, the Brig is comprised of five cells, a common
"watch" area and COS's office. The "watch" area is nothing more then a
duty station in which a security officer can stand watch over the
prisoners. Each cell is equipped with a small "drum" dispenser for the
secure transfer of items and food both to and from the cell. The drum
has an opening on only one section of its curved surface, and is made
out of 0.5cm solid titanium, which in turn is mounted to a framework of
solid titanium that extends 25.0cm with in the bulkhead of the wall.
Once an object is placed with in the drum, the drum is rotated so that
its opened section "faces" the opposite side of the wall. For reasons of
security, the controls for the drum dispenser are placed on the "watch"
duty station and not with in the detention cell itself. This is to
prevent a prisoner from escaping his cell by using the drum dispenser to
gain access to his cell controls. There is a single food dispenser
mounted near the "watch" duty station and is totally inaccessible to
cell occupants.

Also housed in the Brig is the ship's vault. The vault is a secured
storage compartment which can be used to safely store information and
evidence in a criminal investigation, sensitive mission specific
material or information that can not be stored in the ship's cargo bay
or the ship's computers, currency, or personal items for the crew and
passengers. The vault is separated into a safe, and 100 locked boxes.
Either the safe or the boxes can be individually preset to its own lock
combination and climate controls. Access to the vault is granted only by
senior officer identification. This identification is verified by voice
print, optical retina scan, and palm print. All three must be successful
for the senior officer to gain access to the vault. The Brig is located
on Deck-14.

Chartroom
---------

The ship's Chart Room is located aft of the Main Bridge on Deck-1. The
Chart Room is comprised of three main viewing displays and fifteen
smaller ones, each with their own console. The Chart Room is basically
an interactive library in which astrophysical data is prioritized,
catalogued, and studied for scientific, navigational, or tactical needs.
Although this room is designed as a navigational aid, its primary use is
for the scientific study of interstellar objects. In times of war, the
Chart Room can be easily reconfigured as a War Room in the event that a
ranking fleet officer should wish to use the ship as his flag ship
during strategic operations. Using the various monitors at his disposal,
a flotilla commander can keep track of the ebb and flow of battle from
different perspectives, giving him an important aid in dictating the
tactics of his overall command.

Main Engineering
----------------

Main Engineering is located near the center of the secondary hull on
Decks-10-11-12. On either end of the compartment is a single three man
turbolift which only operates with in Main Engineering itself. The warp
core lays horizontal along the floor of Deck-12 and runs from fore to
aft. The Chief Engineer's office is located on the forward end of the
Engineering compartment on Deck-10 and is situated so that the Chief
Engineer can oversee the operations of his department.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

The main cargo bays are located in the lower aft section of the
Secondary Hull between the shuttlebays, and the main deflector dish.
There are four cargo holds in total. Each cargo bay is equipped with two
entrances, one opening towards outer space for offloading via work bee,
shuttlecraft, or space dock. The second entrance is a duel access
airlock opening into the ship's corridor. The airlock acts as a buffer
between the cargo hold and the rest of the ship. Each cargo hold is
compartmentalized, and can be configured to provide either a H, K, L, M,
N, or N(2) environment for the safe storage of perishable cargo or to
house life forms that exist in other terrestrial environments other then
Class-M. This design gives the ship the capability of storing perishable
cargo or housing life forms in their proper environment.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

There are four tractor beam projectors located on the four outer corners
of the space frame. Though they are meant for towing, they can be easily
reconfigured as a repulser beam. In addition; the two aft tractor beams
are designed to be able to tractor a damaged or escaping shuttle craft
into the safety of the shuttlebay. All four tractor beam emitters are
rigged so that an object can be "walked" into the desired position. For
example: If a shuttlecraft is located foreword of the ship, the crewman
manning OPS can lock onto the shuttle craft, and bring it far enough aft
so that the aft tractor beams can haul it into the shuttlebay. Effective
range of the tractor beams is 22,500km, depending on local relativistic
conditions.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

There are a total of 7 transporters designed into the Mariner's deck
plan. There are two standard six pad transporters, one port and one
starboard in the saucer section. In addition, there are two ten pad
emergency transporters. One is located near sickbay in the saucer
section, and the other is positioned with in the secondary hull. There
are three cargo transporters, one in each of the primary cargo holds.
Ranges of the standard transporters are 30,000km, while that of the
emergency and cargo transporters are only 11,250km respectively.

Turbolift Systems
-----------------

There are 7 operational turbolifts. Turbolift-1 is located in the center
of the Saucer Section and has access from Deck-1 of the Saucer all the
way to Deck-13 of the Secondary Hull. Turbolift-2 is also located in the
center of the Saucer, parallel with Turbolift-1, and has access from
Deck-2 of the Saucer through Deck-14 of the Secondary Hull. Turbolifts-3
and 4 have access from Deck-3 through Deck-6 of the Saucer Section, and
are located port and starboard respectively. Turbolifts-5 and 6 are
located port and starboard of the center of the secondary hull and
traverse from deck-9 to deck-13. Turbolift-7 is a cargo turbolift. It is
located in the aft section of the Saucer and has access from Deck-3
through Deck-13 of the Secondary Hull, and can traverse to each of the
three main Cargo Holds.

Crew Support Systems
====================

> "Oh God, I could be bounded in a nut-shell, and count myself a king of
> infinite space..."
>
> — Hamlet, Act-II, Scene-II

Crew Quarters
-------------

Enlisted, NE, and Junior Officers are billeted in pairs, each sharing a
small common lounge area and bathing facilities. The lounge is equipped
with a dining booth module, and a work station that can double as an
entertainment center. The bathroom is equipped with a sink, toilet, and
a sonic shower. The crewmen each receive a separate bedroom which is
only large enough for a twin bed, a dresser, and a small closet. Senior
Officers fair slightly better in that they do not have to share their
living space with another officer. But their stateroom, sleeping
arrangement, and bathing facilities are of the same design as the Junior
Officers. The Captain, Executive Officer, and visiting VIP's fair much
better. Each has a dining module roughly 25% larger then the junior
officers, a bathroom with a whirlpool bath/ sonic shower, and a bedroom
large enough for a walk in closet, a full sized bed, and a large
work/entertainment station. Only the Captain, Executive Officer, and
V.I.P. quarters are outfitted with food dispensers similar to the ones
found in either of the crew lounges.

Crew Recreational Facilities
----------------------------

There are two crew lounges, the Forecastle, and the Fantail. The
Forecastle Lounge is located in the forward most part of the saucer
section on Deck-5. This is usually considered as the Junior Officer,
Enlisted and NE ranks lounge. Under usual conditions, there is a movie
shown on the large display screen twice a week for the crew's enjoyment,
although programming is subject to Captain's discretion. Also located in
the Forecastle Lounge is a well stocked and fully equipped game locker.
Stocked inside is a wide range of portable table top games for the crew
to use at their leisure. The locker may be stocked with such games as
three dimensional chess, holo-battleship, and Fizbit.

The Fantail lounge is located on the aft most section of Deck-6. It is
smaller, and has a minor increase in creature comforts when compared to
the Forecastle. As such, it is usually considered as the command staff
and VIP lounge.

Gymnasium
---------

There is a small gymnasium located on the lower aft section of Deck 14.
It is equipped with a sparing wring for boxing/wrestling/fencing or
other forms of hand to hand combat, and nautilus machinery to keep the
crew in peek physical condition. Should the situation arise, the
Gymnasium's equipment can be easily stored, thus opening up the room's
area to be used as an auditorium or act as an auxiliary storage room.

Galley
------

Located near the center of Deck-4 is the ship's Galley. Although capable
of reproducing a variety of food selections, Mariner Class is equipped
with both a food synthesizer system, and a fully functioning Galley.
Food stuffs for the Galley are stored in three separate fully
compartmentalized pantries, each compartment equipped with their own
stasis field generators to preserve freshness.

The food synthesizer system is comprised of a matter re-sequencer system
connected to the waste reclamation system. The matter re-sequencer
recycles biological waste materials into simple protein and sucrose
compounds resembling meat/ dairy/ vegetable byproducts such as ground
beef, fish or poultry, cheeses, fruit juices and preserves. Although
highly efficient, the re-sequencer is incapable of creating food stuffs
with a complex layered formation as found in a turkey leg (with fat,
bone and skin attached to the meat), or the fibrous consistency of fresh
fruits and vegetables.

Galley prepared or processed synthesized food stuffs are distributed via
a computer controlled network of food dispensers. Any materials left
over from the meal such as the dinner ware, or undigested food stuffs
placed back into the dispenser are automatically recycled into the waste
reclamation system. Each dispenser consists of a closed circuit micro
transporter mounted as an enclosed wall unit in specified areas through
out the ship. These areas include: the Brig, both the Forecastle and
Fantail crew lounges, the Captain's, XO's, and VIP's quarters, Main
Engineering, Sickbay, the Shuttlebay, and the Transporter Rooms.

Medical Facilities
------------------

The ship's Sickbay is located on Deck-5, in the very center of the
saucer section, and is the most highly protected section in the entire
ship. Sickbay is comprised of two examination rooms separated by a
surgical room, which in turn is also bordered by a recovery room. Each
examination room is outfitted with two biobeds. The surgical room is
similarly outfitted with two bio beds, which are in turn modified
specifically for delicate surgical procedures. The recovery room is
outfitted with twelve bio beds that are designed more for a patient's
comfort and recovery. In addition, there is an emergency aid station
located on every deck near the turbolift entrance. Each aid station is
nothing more then an equipment locker housing three antigrav gurneys,
and two fully stocked emergency first aid kits.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

> "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt
> of in your philosophy."
>
> — Hamlet, Act-I, Scene-V

As stated before, the shuttlecraft landing bay is located aft of the
secondary hull. The launch bay is comprised of a double set of doors as
a safe guard against mechanical failure or damage suffered from combat.
The Mariner's Shuttlebay is large enough to handle the maintenance and
offloading requirements for a standard complement of five shuttle craft.
The bay is capable of launching two shuttle craft at a time. During
normal operations, as the double bay doors are opened, a level-4 force
field is erected to keep the shuttlebay's atmosphere inside the ship
while allowing for the safe launch or retrieval of shuttlecraft.

Technical Specifications
========================

Length
:   350 meters

Beam (Width)
:   137 meters

Height
:   60.2 meters

Decks
:   14

Officers and Crew
:   375

Command
:   25

Engineering
:   75

Medical
:   15

Science
:   200

Security
:   60

Visiting Personnel
:   60

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   2000

Core
:   M6 Duotronic core x1, M2 Duotronic core x1

Operating System
:   Windows 1.0

User Interface
:   MAJEL 1.0

Power Plant
:   One 900 cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

Crusing Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 5.5

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 8.5

Maximum Velocity
:   TOS-Warp 9.6 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.25c

Accellerate
:   29 seconds

Decellerate
:   57 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   2016 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   2.0x10\^5 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   3

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   150 photon torpedoes plus 25 scientific probes and 25 unequipped
        casings

Phasers
:   -   6 Type-VIII Phaser Emitters in 3 banks of 2

    -   6 Type-VII phaser emitters mounted in 3 banks of 2.

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Bridge
Chart Room
Conference Room-A
Ready Room
Deck 2
------

CO's quarters
XO's quarters
VIP quarters
Deck 3
------

Conference Room-B
Emergency Transporter \#1
Food Locker \#1-3
Officer's quarters
Primary Computer Core Level-1
Shield Emitters \#1-2
Deck 4
------

Auxiliary Control
Auxiliary Life Support
Auxiliary Power
Galley
Crew Quarters
Type-VIII Phaser Banks \#1-2 (forward port, and forward starboard)
Primary Computer Core Level-2
Deck 5
------

Auxiliary Sensory Grid
Crew Quarters
Docking Airlock \#1-2 (Port and Starboard)
Forecastle Crew Lounge
Primary Computer Core Level-3
Primary Transporter Rooms \#1-2 (port and starboard)
Sickbay
Deck 6
------

Auxiliary Cargo Holds 1-2
Crew Quarters
Fan Tail Officer's Lounge
Deuterium Storage Tanks A and B (port and starboard)
Impulse Drive (aft)
Type-VIII Phaser Bank \#3 (forward)
Type-VII Phaser Banks \#1-2 (port and starboard)
Tractor Beam Emitters \#1-2 (Forward-Port and Forward-Starboard)
Deck 7
------

Emergency Transporter \#2
Photon Torpedo Room
Photon Torpedo Bunker
Deck 8
------

Photon Torpedo Launchers \#1-2-3 (\#1-2 for, \#3 aft)
Deck 9
------

Archeology Lab
Geophysics Lab
Meteorology Lab
Primary Communications Array
Quantum Mechanics Lab
Deck 10
-------

Botanical Lab
Biochemistry Lab
Biophysics Lab
Main Deflector Dish
Main Engineering Level-1
Primary Life Support
Shield Emitters \#3-4
Xenobiology Lab
Deck 11
-------

Cargo Transporter \#1-2
Main Deflector Dish
Main Engineering Level-2
Mechanical Engineering Lab
Primary Cargo Hold \#1-2
Deck 12
-------

Auxiliary Computer Core
Cargo Transporter \#3
Deuterium Storage Tank-C
Main Engineering Level-3
Type-VII Phaser Bank \#3 (aft)
Primary Cargo Hold \#3
Shield Emitters \#5-6
Shuttlebay
Deck 13
-------

Cargo Transporter \#4
Fusion Reactors
Primary Cargo Hold \#4
Shuttlebay
Waste Reclamation
Deck 14
-------

Armory
Brig
Gymnasium
Phaser Array \#8-9 (port, and starboard)
Shield Emitters \#7-8
Tractor Beam Emitters \#3-4
Ships of the Class
==================

Mariner
2342
Bellerophon
2343
Dauntless
2344
Gallant
2345
Merrimack
2346
Monitor
2347
Reliance
2348
Renown
2349
Repulse
2350
Dunsel
2354
Fliver
2356
Nolo
2357
Conclusion
==========

> "All yet seems well; and if it end so meet, the bitter past, more
> welcome is the sweet."
>
> — All's Well that Ends Well, Act-V, Scene-III

It is hoped that with the expanding frontiers of space, the Mariner
class ships will lead the way, discovering what surprises may lay in
store for that great "Undiscovered Country", the future.

Illustrations
=============

These other visual representations of the Mariner are available.

![ Mariner, Side View ](images/tm/mariner-side.png)

![ Mariner, Front View ](images/tm/mariner-front.jpg)

![ Mariner, Aft View ](images/tm/mariner-aft.jpg)

![ Mariner, Bottom View ](images/tm/mariner-bottom.jpg)
