---
author:
- Brandon Irvine
date: 4 May 2010
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

Project Sledgehammer was born at Starfleet Research and Development in
response to requests from several influential starship captains and
engineers to provide an alternative to the venerable, yet still flawed,
Nimitz-class. When the Federation Council caught wind of the Project,
they balked at approving it, given recent approval to revisions to the
Nimitz. In making their case to free up resources for the Project, R&D
pointed out that an unsettling majority of new races being discovered by
Starfleet employed fighters as a critical part of their tactical
strategies, and despite having fighters, the Fleet lacked an appropriate
fighter platform. Since the end of the Kansas Project, several Nimitz
captains had modified their vessels to serve as carriers, but according
to Project head Fleet Captain Jackson White, such modifications were
akin to early 20th Century aircraft carriers; simply battleships with
carrier decks bolted on, not true carriers.

Project Sledgehammer, White argued, would provide the Federation and
Starfleet with a ship that would serve as a true carrier starship,
filling the hole left by the decommissioning of the Kansas-class and
allowing the fleet to utilize its fighter wings as something other than
space station defenses. It would also provide the fleet with an
alternative to the Nimitz, similar in size and weapons capacity, but
without several of the extraneous features that were rarely used anyway.
His argument swayed the Council into providing approval for Project
Sledgehammer to create two prototype ships, at which point the Council
would re-evaluate the Project.

On Stardate 09051.4 the Council was aboard the USS Mjolnir, the first
prototype ship of her class to be produced by the Project. They observed
the full range of the ship’s capabilities: as a carrier, a heavy weapons
platform, and a tactical center of a type typically only seen on
Starbases. Thoroughly impressed with the design team from Project
Sledgehammer, the Federation Council authorized a production run of five
additional ships: one for each Fleet with one held in reserve.

As described by Fleet Captain White at the initial defense of the
Project, the Mjolnir’s mission capabilities include, but are not limited
to the following:

Transport and tactical utilization of Starfleet’s fighters
Engagement of hostile fleet groups
Tactical flagship
Search-and-rescue operations
Transportation and protection of diplomats
Escort and deployment of marines
Demonstration of Starfleet defense abilities to Federation candidate
members
Structure and Construction
==========================

Mjolnir-class ships are designed to function as workhorses for the
fleets they are assigned, with multiple mission profiles. As such, the
design team working for the Project decided to base the general shape of
the ship on a spaceframe that had served as a workhorse for Starfleet
since the mid-23rd century: the Miranda-class. This decision was one of
the most-criticized aspects of the design and building process, as many
designers noted that advancements in technology since the 2250s had made
the Miranda obsolete. In response, the Project’s designers justified
their choice of shape by pointing out that a “flying saucer” was easier
to defend by virtue of not having to worry abut a stardrive section to
create blind spots for the ventral weapons systems. Critics were further
assured that the Project builders would not be simply ‘big-ifying’ the
Miranda frame, but merely using it as a guide, and would construct the
ship using modern techniques, supplies, and equipment.

To fulfill all the mission profiles the ship would be assigned, the
design team drastically expanded the Miranda design from its original
277.76m x 173.98m x 65.23m to a much larger 874.9m x 548m x 205.5m,
while also inverting the nacelle placement and eliminating the
“roll-bar” possessed by some Miranda-class ships. Construction of the
Mjolnir class began with the joining of four U-frames via transporter
welding at Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards.

Two "bubbles" on the dorsal and ventral surfaces house critical systems.
The dorsal bubble is home to a sensor array, while the ventral bubble
houses part of the ship’s weapons capacities. An opening exists on decks
eleven through fifteen for access to the ship’s central hangar.
Deflector systems are located on deck twenty-nine. There are a total of
thirty five decks aboard the ship, with an average deck measurement of
5m. Due to their placement atop rather than below the main hull, the
warp nacelles are not counted towards the deck count, leaving 177m of
deck space.

Mjolnir-class ships are constructed with an 87-13 duranium-tritanium
alloy mix. In addition to standard ablative armor, Mjolnir-class ships
are equipped with additional tritanium armor plating concentrated around
vital areas like the Hangar Bay doors and torpedo bubble. This makes
those areas more resistant to damage inflicted by enemy weapons.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

Mjolnir-class ships have a highly sophisticated sensor suite for a ship
of its size. A Mjolnir comes equipped with a Type VIII sensor suite that
can detect and identify objects within 3.8 light-years at high
resolution, and 12.3 light-years at low resolution. The primary sensor
suite is located in the dorsal "bubble" on deck one.

The ship’s computer systems are large, and focused on accommodating
multiple data retrieval and computing requests at once. A three-core
isolinear main system stretches from decks seven through thirteen, with
an additional isolinear core located on decks twenty through twenty-one
which is used for additional computing power when the ship is serving as
a battle coordinator. The computer system runs Starfleet’s standard
LCARS and MAJEL interfaces.

The Mjolnir is equipped with an Emergency Medical Hologram (EMH) Mark IV
program in its Sickbay. The EMH is automatically activated in the event
of a combat alert.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

The ship is outfitted with a 1618 Cochrane Class-VIII warp core as its
main power source. Despite the size of the ship, with its immense power
requirements, the warp core is able to provide most of the power needed,
in conjunction with the fusion generators that power the impulse
engines.

The warp core is located on decks fourteen through twenty, with the main
reactor assembly located in main engineering on decks sixteen, seventeen
and eighteen. The nacelles are attached to the fantail of deck two and
are actually integrated into the spaceframe. The nacelles are connected
to the warp core by plasma conduits leading from main engineering to the
warp plasma manifolds in the nacelles.

In the event of an emergency, a Mjolnir is capable of ejecting its warp
core. Upon initiation of this process, the main reactor assembly
detaches from its fuel lines and is “pushed” out of the ship via a hatch
just the appropriate size in the aft section of decks fourteen through
twenty. This hatch is how replacement cores are brought aboard upon
return to a suitably equipped starbase or to drydock.

The Mjolnir’s warp system allows it to achieve a cruising speed of Warp
6, a maximum sustainable speed of Warp 7.5, and a maximum 12-hour
emergency speed of Warp 9.7.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

Due to the immense power requirements of propelling ships of the class
at sublight speed, the Mjolnir-class is equipped with four large impulse
engines, each powered by two large fusion generators. The engines and
generators are located together on decks ten, eleven and twelve.

Despite the presence of so many large engines, a Mjolnir-class ship is
only capable of .25c. This allows the rest of the power generated by the
fusion generators to be diverted to the rest of the ship, ensuring that
the lights stay on when wanted, and even provide auxiliary power should
the warp core shut down or be ejected.

Tactical Systems
================

Defensive Shields
-----------------

The Mjolnir-class is equipped with a two-layer shield system. The
primary shields are Type-12, the largest allowed on any starship. They
provide a Max Graviton Load of 2688 megawatts (MW) alongside a Max
Dissipation Rate of 7.3x10\^5 kilowatts (kW).

In the event the primary shields are compromised, a secondary Type-8
shield system is in place to protect the ship. The Type-8 shields
provide a Max Graviton Load of 1344 MW and a Max Dissipation Rate of
3.7x10\^5 kW.

Should both the primary and secondary shields fail, a network of
emergency forcefields and bulkheads exists throughout the ship to
maintain hull integrity. If emergency forcefields or bulkheads are in an
area where the outer hull has been compromised, a Mjolnir is limited to
speeds below warp factor four to compensate for the additional stress on
the Structural Integrity Field.

Phaser Systems
--------------

The phaser systems on the ship were designed to enable debilitating
volleys of near-constant phaser fire forward, and designers provided it
with ample weaponry to enable that goal. A Mjolnir’s phaser systems are
based around the necessity to first protect the flight deck. Four
Type-VIII phaser turrets are placed forward, spread out around the
hangar. One is placed on deck twenty, one on deck five, and two on deck
seventeen, on either side of the hangar doors.

To protect the ship’s flanks, two Type X phaser arrays are positioned
along the starboard and port sides of the ship, with each array having
250 emitters. These strips are located on deck twenty on both sides,
near amidships.

Two additional Type X arrays are located on deck two and deck
thirty-five aft. Each array has 250 emitters, and can fire in a 270
degree arc along any axis.

The ship’s final two Type X arrays are located on the ship’s surfaces,
one dorsal and one ventral. The dorsal array is located immediately aft
of the Flag Bridge, while the ventral array is located immediately aft
of the torpedo bubble. Each array has 250 emitters as well, but due to
their positioning, cannot have overlapping fields of fire.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

The Mjolnir-class makes full strategic use of its four torpedo
launchers. There are two launchers in the torpedo bubble on deck
thirty-five that fire forward, and two that fire aft from deck eleven.
With the torpedo launchers so far apart, a Mjolnir has two separate
torpedo bays. Each torpedo bay is stocked with 80 photon torpedoes, 40
quantum torpedoes, and 30 reserve torpedo casings used for probes.
Torpedo Bay 1 is located on deck eleven, and Torpedo Bay 2 is located on
deck thirty-four, feeding the torpedoes down into the launchers.

In the event of a failure of the automated firing sequence, manual
firing stations are set up on decks ten and thirty-four, but the rooms
can only be opened by an officer with department head-level
authorization.

Close-In Weapons System
-----------------------

In homage to the Kansas-class carrier, the Mjolnir-class was equipped
with a Close-In Weapons System (CIWS). The CIWS system is designed to
supplement the existing phaser system by concentrating solely on objects
within 3 km of the ship, typically fighters, allowing the primary
phasers to concentrate fire on capital ships outside that small target
area. This also allows the CIWS to provide a higher rate of more
concentrated fire, by reducing the area the phaser energy can travel.

The CIWS is made up of Type VI phaser banks and phaser arrays. There are
eight phaser banks and five arrays. Each phaser bank has four emitters,
and each array has 150. Each CIWS station is comprised of two phaser
banks, with an array in between them, thus there are four stations.
Station 1 is positioned on deck two, forward of the Flag Bridge. Station
2 is positioned on deck thirty-five, forward of the torpedo bubble.
Stations 3 and 4 are positioned on the bottom of the fantail on deck
fourteen. The fifth array is positioned in between stations 3 and 4.

Operation of the CIWS occurs in the CIC. Upon issuance of a tactical
alert, the ship’s Chief Tactical Officer toggles the CIWS from
“Inactive” to “Ready.” Automatically, the ship’s computer generates a
1000-kilometer sensor screen around the ship. Any ship designated as
hostile that penetrates that screen is immediately targeted, and is
fired upon by at least one of the five stations without any additional
action by the CTO if it breaches the 3000m safety screen.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

Combat Information Center
-------------------------

As a tactical vessel, the Mjolnir’s designers thought it was of
paramount importance to create a large area onboard that could serve as
a tactical command center for all combat actions, be they major fleet
actions or simply the Mjolnir against any number of aggressors. Thus,
the Combat Information Center was created. Located on deck twenty-three,
the CIC is the size of a Starbase’s Ops Center.

In the center of the CIC is a ring of sensor information stations. Each
station receives information on the battle area, and use holoemitters
installed in the consoles to project a three-dimensional representation
of local space. Using the information provided, the ship’s Captain can
order weapons strikes on various targets, then see the results play out
in real time on the holo-display. The CIC computers calculate the damage
the strikes cause and update the tactical display accordingly.

The back wall of CIC is designated for use as a virtual viewscreen: a
series of holoemitters are built into the wall to enable it to project
an image of an area of space upon command. Upon the request of the CO or
duty officer, the viewscreen can be activated to display incoming
communications, sensor data, or merely a view of space.

In addition to the sensor stations and the virtual viewscreen, the CIC
is comprised of stations showing the current damage level of the ship
and its systems, allowing the command staff to instantly receive damage
reports and alter their combat strategy as needed, as well as stations
for the Security staff to know the status and location of any of the
ship’s personnel.

The helm, operations, and tactical station form a horseshoe forward of
the sensor ring, and face the holodisplay. The helm station controls the
pitch, yaw, and roll of the ship. Operations provides reports on power
levels and quick-summary damage reports that lack the depth of those
provided by the wall DC consoles (see below), and tactical controls the
ship’s weapons and shields.

Seating for the CO and XO is provided aft of the sensor stations in the
form of raised seats that allow the command staff to take a load off
their feet while remaining within sight of the holo-display. The walls
of CIC – with the exception of the one designated for the viewscreen –
are comprised of computer stations that serve as redundant links to
various departments, such as Flight Ops for the Air Group, and Sickbay
(which displays totals of casualties, separated into wounded and
killed), and display Damage Control readouts, and also provide access to
the CO’s Ready Room, the Flag Office, the Conference Lounge and the
Briefing Lounge.

Two turbolifts serve the CIC regularly. In the event of a loss of power,
the lift to CIC operates off a dedicated battery system.

Main Engineering
----------------

Main Engineering on a Mjolnir is located on decks sixteen, seventeen and
eighteen. It spans the entirety of the aft section on those three decks,
using the space for the warp core and the matter and anti-matter tanks
that provide the ship’s fuel. Main Engineering is also home to several
spare parts lockers. There is a Machine Shop located on deck eighteen
that, in conjunction with an industrial replicator, enables the
engineers on the ship to produce their own spare parts for the ship and
the fighter wings. The presence of the Shop reduces the number of times
the ship has to visit Starbases for re-supply.

The Chief Engineer’s office is located on deck eighteen as well. In case
of an emergency, the CE is able to eject the core and/or re-route power
throughout the ship from his office, which can be completely sealed off
from the rest of Main Engineering. This ability also is helpful in
giving the CE a small amount of privacy should he desire.

Security
--------

The Mjolnir’s Security Office is located on deck twenty-nine. It
contains a Squad Room, with desks for an entire shift’s worth of
Security officers, a Brig, two interrogation rooms, and a small arms
locker containing small-arms such as Type I and II phasers for on-duty
security officers. The Squad Room contains a replicator.

The ship’s Brig is made up of six low-security holding cells comprised
of a sixteen square meter room surrounded by bars and a Level Three
forcefield, capable of holding four people at a time and four
high-security containment cells comprised of an eight square meter room
sealed off by a solid bulkhead and an entrance covered by duranium bars
and a Level Five forcefield, capable of holding two people at a time.
Any officer can access the Brig, but may only enter cells with the
approval of a Security officer.

The interrogation rooms are where security officers question parties
involved in the commission of crimes on board the ship. The rooms
themselves are rather Spartan, containing two chairs and a metal table.
An observation room is located between the two interrogation rooms,
allowing Security officers or JAG representatives to listen in on
interrogations.

The COS’ Office is located adjacent to Interrogation Two, and looks out
directly into the Squad Room. Like the CE’s Office, the COS’ Office can
also be sealed off from the rest of the Security Office. The COS’
office, however, contains a weapon’s locker that is only accessible with
the COS’ Security Override Code and holds six Type III phaser rifles.

Also on deck twenty-nine, adjacent to the entire Security Office, are
two holosuites that can be used to run training simulations for security
officers. They are only accessible by the Security Watch Officer. The
ship’s Armory and Marine Detachment are headquartered on this deck as
well.

Armory
------

The Armory on a Mjolnir is located adjacent to the Marine Detachment’s
headquarters, across the hall from the Security Office. Inside the
Armory is a collection of anti-personnel weaponry substantial enough to
provide weapons to half the ship’s crew. Weapons available in the Armory
include Type III phaser rifles, Type IIIc compression phaser rifles,
Type II phaser pistols, Type I phaser pistols, stun grenades, and photon
grenades. The Armory also contains body armor designed to absorb and
dissipate the energy of a phaser blast. Comprised of a vest, leg
padding, and a helmet, this body armor is only issued to Marines and
Rapid-Response Security teams who head into combat actions such as
repelling boarders, boarding enemy vessels, or hostage rescue
situations. Marine units also have access to such heavy weaponry as
Tetryon Pulse Launchers, Isomagnetic Disintegrators, and Photon Mortars.

Access to the Armory is restricted to the COS, the commander of the
Marine detachment, and any crew member with the rank of Lieutenant
Commander or above. A quartermaster or quartermaster’s assistant is
stationed in the Armory to record who withdraws what.

Marine Detachment
-----------------

Across the hall from the Security Office and adjacent to the Armory is a
room that contains the offices of the ship’s Marine detachment. Each
Mjolnir is home to two Marine companies of three hundred Marines each,
plus a small Headquarters company that brings the total number of
Marines on board to seven hundred and makes the detachment a full
Battalion. The Marine officers have offices on deck twenty-nine, where
they can deal with disciplinary matters within their ranks, write up and
file after-action reports, and meet with naval personnel about Marine
involvement in upcoming missions. The detachment also shares time with
the Security personnel in the training holosuites, and has its quarters
on deck twenty.

Science Labs
------------

The General Science Lab onboard the Mjolnir is located on deck four. It
contains equipment for chemistry, physics, biology, and botany, as well
as offices for all science personnel. The CSO’s Office is located here
as well, and unlike the CE and COS’ offices, cannot be sealed off from
the Science Labs. Finally, Deck four houses the quarters for all the
Science personnel.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

The Mjolnir’s two Cargo Bays are located adjacent to the Flight Decks on
decks eleven through fifteen. One is located to starboard, the other to
port. Though large enough to hold entire small-end cargo ships, each
Cargo Bay is typically occupied by supplies loaded aboard at Starbases
but not yet unpacked or catalogued. Each bay maintains a cargo
transporter system to facilitate the collection of cargo. In the event
of an emergency, the Cargo Bays can also serve as capture bays for the
ship’s fighter compliment. There are doors on deck fifteen that allow
the fighters landing in the Cargo Bays to make their way into the
maintenance area.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

As a carrier platform, the Mjolnir’s Tractor Beam is one of her most
important pieces of equipment. Located on deck fifteen, below the Flight
Decks, the tractor beam – with the paired 16 MW Graviton Polarity
Sources producing 32 Mega Watts of Gravity Displacing Power – is
effective up to a range (assuming nominal delta-v) of up to 20,000
kilometers. This allows the ship to have a rudimentary assisted-landing
system, where pilots – aided by the Tractor Beam – enter the 20,000
kilometer range, decelerate, and allow themselves to be pulled in to the
mustering area, at which point the pilots activate their thrusters and
maneuver through the forcefield, land the craft, and taxi to their
berthing space. This assisted-landing system, however, does not operate
under combat conditions due to limitations on the number of fighters it
can pull in at once.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

The Mjolnir-class has a large and elaborate transporter system. Due to
the immense size, having a few centralized transporter rooms was quickly
determined to be infeasible for dispatching boarding parties, SAR-teams,
or even receiving dignitaries. Thus, the transporter system on the
Mjolnir-class was departmentalized instead.

There are eight standard transporter rooms aboard a Mjolnir. The first
two are located on deck two, and are typically the transporter rooms
used for the reception of dignitaries. From these two transporter rooms,
the dignitaries may be directed to VIP Quarters, located on deck two, or
the Conference Lounge adjacent to the Flag Bridge on deck one.

The second two are located on deck eight, and are general purpose
transporter rooms, beaming crewmembers to Starbases or other ships for
purposes not related to capture or assault.

The final four are located on deck twenty-nine, adjacent to the Security
Complex, as well as the headquarters of the Marine detachment. From
here, boarding parties can be dispatched to enemy vessels, or friendly
vessels in need of assistance repelling boarders. This allows a Mjolnir
to more quickly saturate an area with its teams, and provides a greater
opportunity for success.

The emergency transporter rooms aboard the Mjolnir class are primarily
for the use of the Medical department. There are a pair that serve the
Alpha Sickbay on deck three, and a pair that serve the Beta Sickbay on
deck twenty-six. This allows for greater response time by the ship’s
medical staff to medical emergencies, and in turn, boosts the injury
survival rate.

The standard transporter rooms have six pads each, and a refresh rate of
sixty seconds. The emergency transporter rooms have eight pads each, and
a refresh rate of thirty seconds. Pattern buffers are stationed on the
deck below each set of rooms.

Turbolifts
----------

There are twelve turbolift tubes onboard a Mjolnir-class ship. Emanating
from a central hub located on deck thirty-five, the turbolift system is
the best way to travel on a Mjolnir. It may take five minutes to get
from a job doing maintenance on the deck thirty-five phaser array to
deck seven for lunch, but it’s much faster than walking.

Crew Support Systems
====================

Sickbay
-------

Each Mjolnir-class ship has two. As a combat ship with a large crew, it
is expected that the ship will see a significant number of battle
casualties with each engagement. With that in mind, the designers
incorporated two large Sickbays, Alpha Sickbay on deck three, and Beta
Sickbay on deck twenty-six, to ensure the best medical treatment
possible.

Alpha Sickbay is the Main Sickbay. It has seventeen biobeds in its main
treatment ward, with an additional fifteen beds each in its surgery
suite and recovery ward for a total of 47 beds. Beta Sickbay, however,
is larger because its location relative to the most populated areas of
the ship makes it the default sickbay for crewmembers in Engineering or
Security.

Beta Sickbay is also the Combat Sickbay. It has twenty biobeds in its
main treatment ward, with an additional fifteen each in its surgery
suite and recovery ward for a total of 50 beds. During combat, it
operates on a triage system, where medics treat green-level patients,
nurses tend to yellow-level patients, and doctors work on red-level
patients.

The CMO’s office is located in Alpha Sickbay, in an administrative suite
adjacent to the main treatment facility.

Replicators
-----------

Every set of quarters aboard the ship, as well as the Conference Lounge,
the Crew Lounge, the Crew Mess, the Pilot Briefing Lounge, the CO’s
Ready Room and the CIC is equipped with a replicator. Each replicator is
capable of producing any food or clothing item.

Crew Quarters
-------------

Crew Quarters are located throughout the ship, though are mostly
contained in the upper decks. VIP quarters and Command quarters are
located on deck two. Quarters for Department Heads and medical staff are
located on deck three. Quarters for science staff are located on deck
four. Junior officer and enlisted quarters are located on deck seven.
Quarters for flight crew are located on decks sixteen and twenty.
Quarters for Marines are also on deck twenty. For purposes of assigning
quarters, pilots are considered flight crew, and placed in enlisted
quarters on deck sixteen. Maintenance crews are placed in enlisted
quarters on deck twenty.

VIP and Command quarters are large suites, comprised of a large
living/reception area, an office area with a workstation, a kitchenette
with a replicator, a bathroom, and a bedroom. The CO’s quarters, in
addition to that, have a hot tub adjacent to the bathroom, capable of
seating eight people comfortably.

DH quarters are staterooms comprised of a medium-sized living/reception
area with a computer workstation, a bathroom, and a bedroom. DH quarters
also contain a replicator.

Junior Officers are billeted in pairs, in rooms comprising a small
living/reception area, a shared bathroom and separate bedrooms. The
Junior Officers’ quarters share a replicator.

Enlisted officers are bunked in groups of four. Enlisted officers’
quarters are comprised of a bedroom with two sets of bunk beds. Each
bunk has two large drawers beneath it for storage of personal items, and
enlisted officers share a closet at the head of the bed for uniforms.
Every two enlisted officer’s quarters shares a bathroom in between them.

Marines are bunked in enlisted officers’ quarters on deck twenty. There
are exceptions, such as the company COs (billeted together in Junior
Officers’ Quarters) and the Battalion CO (solo suite in DH Quarters).

Holographic Recreation Facilities
---------------------------------

The Mjolnir-class is equipped with four holodecks: two on deck six, and
one each on deck eight and deck twenty-five. Seven holosuites are
scattered throughout the ship as well, two on deck six, one on deck
twenty-eight, two on deck twenty-nine, and one each on decks thirty-one
and thirty-two.

Crew Lounge
-----------

The Crew Lounge is located on deck eight, with seating for 500 people.
It has a staff of waiters to quickly and personably provide food to
crewmembers. Seating is available by reservation, or by walk-in.
Reserved seating is, however, the seating closest to the large windows,
and thus has the best view.

Observation Lounge
------------------

Just below the Crew Lounge, on deck nine, sits the Observation Lounge.
The O-Lounge only seats 100, and is served by the same wait staff as the
Crew Lounge. All seating in the O-Lounge is reserved, and the O-Lounge
can be booked for parties.

Crew Mess
---------

Located on deck twenty-one, the Crew Mess provides an informal setting
for crewmembers to eat, as an alternative to the Crew Lounge for
below-decks crewmen. The Crew Mess has seating for five hundred people,
and serves three meals daily in a buffet style. For those who wish to
eat something other than what is on the buffet, a replicator is
available.

Ready Room
----------

The CO’s Ready Room is located adjacent to the CIC on deck twenty-three.
The Ready Room is equipped with a small coffee table with three chairs
for informal meetings, a desk/workstation with two chairs for formal
meetings, a small head to freshen up before meetings, and a display
area. What is displayed is Captain’s Prerogative. The Ready Room also
has a replicator, and a small sofa/pull-out bed the Captain can use to
catch a quick nap.

Conference Lounge
-----------------

The Conference Lounge is located adjacent to the CIC on deck
twenty-three. The Conference Lounge is equipped with a long table with
seating for ten. Each seat has a computer terminal allowing them to read
over briefing documents and view complimentary information to any
presented on the large computer screen at the head of the table. A
replicator is also provided in the Conference Lounge for use of crew
members in need of coffee or a Danish before a briefing.

Briefing Lounge
---------------

The Briefing Lounge is located adjacent to the CIC on deck twenty-three,
next door to the Conference Lounge. It is a somewhat smaller copy of the
Conference Lounge, and only seats six, but allows the senior staff
members stationed in CIC the ability to discuss mission issues out of
earshot of the rest of the CIC crew. It can also be used for
consultations with allied or enemy forces, or as an impromptu War Room.

Flag Office
-----------

The Flag Office is located adjacent to the CIC on deck twenty-three,
next door to the CO’s Ready Room. It provides the Flag Officer, should
one be embarked, a place to work from without imposing on the CO. It is
outfitted with a desk, two chairs, and a replicator.

Counseling Center
-----------------

The Counseling Center is the home of a Mjolnir’s CNS and staff, devoted
to ensuring the mental health of all crewmembers on board. Located on
Deck Thirty-Three, the Counseling Center is equipped with standard
psychiatric diagnostic and treatment equipment.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

As a carrier platform ship, the Mjolnir’s pride and joy is its flight
decks. Located on decks eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen and fifteen
they house the ship’s two fighter wings, sixteen personnel shuttles, and
three runabouts.

Deck eleven houses Flight Ops, which is where all the activity on the
three lower decks is controlled from. Flight Ops has a staff of sixteen
which monitor the status of craft outside the ship, as well as those
still inside and the maintenance status. The office of the ship’s CAG is
located in Flight Ops, as well as the offices of each squadron
commander.

Deck twelve is mainly airspace, but the signal lights that instruct deck
crew as to the status of the flight deck are mounted here, as are the
intercom speakers Flight Ops crew use to inform deck crew verbally of
the flight deck’s condition. The Signal Lights are color-coordinated to
squadrons and line the deck; meaning that if Blue Squadron was preparing
for launch, a blue light would flash intermittently while the craft were
brought up to the deck, then a yellow caution light would illuminate
beneath the blue light while the craft were readied, then a red light
would flash to alert the deck crew to clear the runway, followed by a
green light to signal the squadron they are clear to launch. The
intercom system works in conjunction with the signal lights, announcing
audibly to the deck crew what squadron is coming up, instructing them to
prepare the craft for launch, warning them to clear the runway, and
instructing the squadron they are clear to launch. The last command is
repeated over the squadron’s comm system.

Deck thirteen is the main flight deck. All the ship’s auxiliary craft
launch from deck thirteen. One of the ship’s six squadrons of fighters
is always standing by on deck thirteen, ready for launch. Elevators line
each side of the deck, standing by to bring additional craft up from
deck fourteen for launch. Squadron ready rooms, as well as the Pilot
Briefing Lounge, are located on this deck.

Decks fourteen and fifteen are the maintenance/repair decks. The
squadrons not on standby for launch have their craft stored here while
waiting. Here is where all the maintenance and repairs are made to
damaged craft.

A Mjolnir carries two full fighter wings, containing a total of six
squadrons, for a total of seventy-two fighters. In addition to this,
they carry sixteen Type-VIII personnel shuttles, and three runabouts,
used in SAR operations. Mjolnirs do not carry a Captain’s Yacht.

Technical Specifications
========================

Length
:   897.4 meters

Beam (Width)
:   548 meters

Height
:   205 meters

Decks
:   35

Officers and Crew
:   1900

Visiting Personnel
:   555

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   13200

Core
:   Isolinear Core x5

Operating System
:   Starfleet Library Computer Access and Retrieval System (LCARS)

User Interface
:   MAJEL

Power Plant
:   One 1610 cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

Crusing Velocity
:   Warp 6

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   Warp 7.5

Maximum Velocity
:   Warp 9.7 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.25c

Accellerate
:   30 seconds

Decellerate
:   60 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   Primary: 2688 Megawatts

:   Secondary: 1344 Megawatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   Primary: 7.3 x 10\^5 kilowatts

:   Secondary: 3.7 x 10\^5 kilowatts

Close-in Weapons Systems
:   8 type-VI phaser banks

:   5 type-VI phaser arrays

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   4

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   200 photon torpedoes

    :   120 quantum torpedoes

Phasers
:   -   6 Type-X Phaser Arrays

    -   4 Type-VIII Pulse Phaser Cannons

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Primary Sensor Array
Secondary Sensor Suite
Deck 2
------

CO's Quarters
CO's Hot Tub
VIP Quarters
XO's Quarters
Transporter Room 1
Transporter Room 2
CIWS Station 1
Phaser Array 1 (Dorsal)
Phaser Array 2 (Aft)
Deck 3
------

DH Quarters
Medical Officers' Quarters
Alpha Sickbay
CMO's Office
Pattern Buffer
Emergency Transporter Room 1
Emergency Transporter Room 2
Deck 4
------

Science Officers' Quarters
General Science Lab
CMO's Office
Pattern Buffer
Main Sensor Equipment A
Deck 5
------

Phaser Cannon 1
Main Sensor Equipment B
Deck 6
------

Holodeck 1
Holodeck 2
Holosuite 1
Holosuite 2
Deck 7
------

Junior Officers' Quarters
Computer Core A
Deck 8
------

Crew Lounge
Holodeck 3
Computer Core B
Transporter Room 3
Transporter Room 4
Deck 9
------

Observation Lounge
Computer Core C
Pattern Buffer
Deck 10
-------

Computer Core D
Impulse Engines
Manual Firing Station 1
Deck 11
-------

CAG's Office
Squadron CO's Offices
Flight Ops
Cargo Bay 1
Cargo Bay 2
Computer Core E
Impulse Engines
Torpedo Bay 1
Torbedo Tube 1
Torpedo Tube 2
Deck 12
-------

Alert Signals
Cargo Bay 1
Cargo Bay 2
Computer Core F
Impulse Engines
Impulse Engine Fuel/Coolant Tanks
PA System
Deck 13
-------

Cargo Bay 1
Cargo Bay 2
Computer Core G
Flight Deck
Mechanical Deck
Pilots' Briefing Lounge
Squadron Ready Rooms
Deck 14
-------

Auxiliary Spacecraft Storage
Cargo Bay 1
Cargo Bay 2
CIWS Station 3
CIWS Station 4
Fighter Maintenance Bays
Warp Core A
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 15
-------

Auxiliary Spacecraft Storage
Cargo Bay 1
Cargo Bay 2
Tractor Beam
Warp Core B
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 16
-------

Flight Officers' Quarters
Main Engineering A
Warp Core C
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 17
-------

Main Engineering B
Phaser Cannon 2
Phaser Cannon 3
Warp Core D
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 18
-------

CE's Office
Main Engineering C
Industrial Replicator
Machine Shop
Warp Core E
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 19
-------

Warp Core F
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 20
-------

Backup Computer Core A
Flight Officers' Quarters
Marine Barracks
Phaser Array 3 (Starboard)
Phaser Array 4 (Port)
Phaser Cannon 4
Warp Core G
Warp Core Ejection System
Deck 21
-------

Backup Computer Core B
Torpedo Bay Manual Launch
Deck 22
-------

Backup Computer Core C
Deck 23
-------

Briefing Lounge
Conference Lounge
Combat Information Center
CO's Ready Room
Flag Office
Backup Computer Core D
Deck 24
-------

Guest Quarters
Deck 25
-------

Holodeck 4
Deck 26
-------

Beta Sickbay
Backup Computer Core G
Emergency Transporter Room 3
Emergency Transporter Room 4
Deck 27
-------

Pattern Buffer
Spare Parts Locker
Deck 28
-------

Holosuite 3
Spare Parts Locker
Deck 29
-------

Armory
Brig
Security Office
Holosuite 4
Holosuite 5
Transporter Room 5
Transporter Room 6
Transporter Room 7
Transporter Room 8
Deck 30
-------

Pattern Buffer
Deck 31
-------

Holosuite 6
Deck 32
-------

Holosuite 7
Deck 33
-------

Counseling Center
CNS' Office
Deck 34
-------

Manual Firing Station 2
Deck 35
-------

CIWS Station 2
Phaser Array 5 (Ventral)
Phaser Array 6 (Aft)
Torpedo Tube 3
Torpedo Tube 4
Torpedo Bay 2
Turbolift Hub
Turbolift Maintenance Facility
Ships of the Class
==================

All Mjolnir-class ships are named for weapons wielded by heroes in
various Terran mythologies.

USS Mjolnir
92040
USS Aegis
92041
USS Gungnir
92042
USS Dyrnwyn
92043
USS Vajra
92044
USS Mistilteinn
92045
USS Kusanagi
92046
The following names are reserved for use of any future Mjolnir-class
vessels produced beyond the initial 7.

USS Naegling
USS Ridill
USS Caladbolg
USS Tyrfing
USS Almace
USS Gram
USS Carnwennan
Conclusion
==========

Now that the Mjolnir-class has entered production, captains dissatisfied
with the Nimitz-class are switching ship classes, ending their griping
about the problems with the latter class. With fewer griping commanding
officers, Starfleet R&D, as well as the Federation Council, can return
to designing less deadly, more scientific ships that are best suited for
a peacetime fleet. With the Mjolnir-class patrolling the Federation's
area of the galaxy, Federation citizens can rest assured that Starfleet
is doing their absolute best to protect them from any threats on the
horizon.
