---
author:
- Larry Garfield
date: 31 March 2007
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

First contact between the Crag and the species later learned to be the
Palpatine came in 2368, when the enigmatic Palpatine, having discovered
one of the Crag's earliest deep space probes, chose Crell as a base of
operations for a major military offensive. The Naboo sect of the
Palpatine were in possession of a Dyson Sphere of extra-galactic origin,
about which much is still unknown, constructed around a pulsar, which
gave them access to nearly unlimited energy but not unlimited manpower.
The dyson sphere, dubbed the Rolchana or "Star of Death" in the
Palpatine's language, also included a psycho-kentic generator that, with
the aid of small neural controller devices affixed to a sentient's
skull, allowed for a primitive but effective form of mind control. The
Crag came to know the Palpatine simply as "The Overlords", keepers of
the Star of Death, and the psycho-kinetic field became known simply as
"The Force".

The Palpatine quickly enslaved virtually the entire population, and the
Crag, now given a new motivational imperative by the controllers, turned
their industrious nature toward war. The Force did not turn the Crag
into mindless drones or suffering slaves, but rather refocused their
mental priorities with a new motivational imperative: Serve the
Overlords. The first major task of the "re-focused" Crag was the
construction of an orbital base of operations to serve as a military
command center, a relay station for The Force, and a shipyard for the
construction of small, expendable ships of the line that Starfleet would
later dub the Furry-class.

Although the Crag's motivations had been altered, their underlying
personality was not. Their love of nature showed through in nearly all
military construction. The orbital station was named
TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr, or, in the Crag language, "High Leaf of the
Kintar Tree". The station itself was built to model the veins in the
leaf of the Kintar tree, one of the seven High Trees on Crell, which
grows to over 100 meters high. The station population included
construction personnel, administration, and a sizable supporting
civilian population, totaling over 1000 permanent residents. Nearly all
of them were Crag as the Palpatine preferred to remain on the Rolchana,
save for a small team of overseers who kept largely to themselves on
decks 1 and 2.

After the Crag War in 2375, the Crag, freed from the rule of the
Palpatine, embraced the Federation and applied for membership. Starfleet
assumed control of TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr and named it Starbase 202,
although to the Crag it still remains TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr, or simply
Telkintar for short. The station remained under Starfleet administration
until 2381 when the Crell government decided that Starfleet's military
leadership was inappropriate for what had become a major civilian
center. TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr was recognized as a village in its own
right with its own governing Council of Elders that hosted a Starfleet
military installation. Power-sharing between the Starfleet-appointed
Commanding Officer and the Crag Chief Elder is, as of this writing,
still tentative and not firmly established.

Since the Crag War, the station has undergone multiple renovations as
Starfleet converted the station from a shipyard to a space port.
Fortunately, Telkintar's design proved internally flexible and numerous
changes have been possible. Unless otherwise specified, this
specification report refers to the station's design after Starfleet
renovations and upgrades were completed.

Starbase 202 is situated in a geosynchronous orbit over the capital city
of Crewel in the southern hemisphere. It has an orbital altitude of
approximately 39,672 km.

Structure and Construction
==========================

Starbase 202 was built as a multi-function station, but its role as a
shipyard had the largest impact on its construction. The station
consists of a four parts: the main core, 14 decks tall, that houses most
of the station's habitable area; the stem, a slender, tapered core
extending 20 decks below the main core that houses most of the station's
critical equipment; the shipyard, a network of scaffolding and docking
ports that extends outward from the main core's lower decks in the same
pattern as the veins of the Kintar leaf; and the flower, a
communications array atop the main core that originally served as a
subspace relay for The Force but has since been repurposed for use as a
subspace communications relay for Federation communication traffic.

The station hull, unlike typical Starfleet design, consists of four
vacuum-sealed layers. Each of the four layers is composed of compressed
carbon nano-tubes doped with diamond and is separated by a vacuum area.
The total hull thickness averages 0.8 meters, and is divided into 4
meter square regions. The edge of each region is separated by the same
hull material running the full thickness of the hull, creating isolated
sections. The inner-most vacuum region of each section includes an
emergency forcefield that activates automatically upon excessive
decompression.

Although sturdy and cheap, the nano-tube construction was not as
effective against weapons fire as Starfleet designs. As a result,
Starfleet covered the hull with three centimeters of duranium/tritanium
composite and one centimeter of ablative armor for better
combat-readiness. The composite was essentially "painted on" using
standard phase-welding techniques.

Fortunately for Starfleet, the original design placed most of the
load-bearing weight on the outer hull and on selected internal
structures. The compact design of the main core also allowed for fewer
structurally significant walls. As a result, repurposing internal areas
proved while not easy at least not especially difficult. Whereas over
half of the main core was originally used for fabrication and storage of
starship components, most of that space has been converted for habitable
civilian use.

Main Core
---------

The main core has a diameter of 294 meters and a total height of 62
meters. The top is domed, gently sloping downward from its apex to only
four decks tall at the edges. Its underside is slightly concavely curved
towards the center, resulting in a tapering effect where the stem of the
station flows naturally out of the main core, just like the stem of a
leaf.

Attached to the main core, are eight defense sails, positioned at 45,
135, 225, and 315 degrees from station centerline in pairs, one dorsal
and one ventral. The sails are roughly tetrahedral, ten meters on a
side, and house the station's anti-matter torpedo launchers and pulse
phaser cannons.

The Flower
----------

Although fancifully named, the "flower", as the Crag call it, is
actually a large communications array that sits atop the station. In the
original design it served as a subspace relay for The Force, but that
use was, of course, lost after the Crag War and contrary to Federation
ideals. Instead, it was repurposed into a subspace transceiver array.
Parts were rotated out from existing subspace transceiver assemblies
during standard maintenance cycles, allowing Telkintar to serve as a a
major subspace communications hub. As it is within close proximity to a
star it is not as effective as a deep space array, but does provide a
central communications and command-and-control center for fleet
operations within the Crag Annexation.

The transceiver array consists of four elongated pentagonal transceiver
panels, each 10.3 meters in length. They are arranged in a circular
fashion, angled 45 degrees above the station's plane.

Stem
----

The stem tapers from 40 meters wide down to only 5 meters wide at its
tip over the course of approximately 100 meters. Its upper-most three
decks, 13-15, are dedicated to antimatter storage. Palpatine technology
was heavily reliant on anti-matter, and in fact its primary weapons
system, the anti-matter torpedo, was based almost entirely on
antimatter. Deck 16 is primarily dedicated to antimatter generation,
using deuterium stored on decks 17-18. Decks 19-24 house major heavy
equipment, while decks 25-27 house twin fusion generators fed from the
deuterium tanks above. What is nominally decks 28-32 consists of the
fusion plasma exhaust and limited habitable area for repair personnel.

The Shipyard
------------

The shipyard, or veins of the leaf, consists of four large corridors,
called Causeways, 10 meters in diameter, that extend from the station
core for 103 meters before each splitting into two corridors of equal
size at a a 90 degree angle from each other. Each of those causeways
then splits three ways after another 43 meters. Each set of causeways
continues another 37 meters and ends in a docking port for larger,
capital vessels.

Along the side of each of the causeways, in the original construction,
were construction scaffolds for a Furry-class vessel. The primary
causeways could support six vessels on either side, while the secondary
and tertiary corridors could support two on each side. Allowing for
joints that did not allow two vessels to be next to each other
simultaneously, that gave the station a maximum production capacity of
144 Furry-class vessels in construction at once. When Starfleet took
control of the station the construction rigs were converted to standard
universal airlocks. Depending on the size and orientation of a docking
vessel, that gives the station a docking capacity of between 70 and 100
vessels. On average, between 30 and 40 vessels of varying sizes are
docked at any given time, including sub-light transports from the planet
below.

Docking ports are coordinated in descending fashion by the path to get
to them. Causeways are labeled A-D in clockwise order from station
center-line, and each docking port is numbered according to its distance
from the nearest junction, with left side ports (facing away from the
station core) listed first. Thus, for example, docking port C-B-1 would
be reached via the primary causeway 180-degrees from station centerline,
then the right turn at the first split, and then the first left-side
terminal. D-A-B-1 would be the left capital vessel terminal from the
primary causeway 270 degrees from station centerline.

Because of the potential for conflicting traffic, most vessels docking
at one of the non-endpoint docking ports will approach the station from
dorsal and then lower into place to dock. Departing vessels will detach
from the docking port and then depart ventral, creating a natural flow
of traffic.

For administrative reasons, causeway B is reserved for Starfleet
vessels. Causeway A, facing the planet, is generally reserved for local
sub-light traffic, typically transports from the planet's surface. In
case of overflow, inter-stellar flights take priority over local traffic
and Starfleet vessels have first docking priority over all other
vessels.

Coordinate System
-----------------

Unlike a starship, which has a clear "fore" and "aft", a symmetrical
station has no obvious zero-point. When it assumed control, Starfleet
designated the station commander's office as the X-plane zero point. The
station commander's office is oriented to always face the Crell horizon,
planetary east from the city of Crewel below. Station center is defined
as the point on Deck 11 where the primary causeways would meet if they
extended into the main core. Therefore, an object bearing 0, 0 would be
planar with Deck 11 in the direction of the horzion, in line with the
station commander's office. Bearing 180, 45 would be 45 degrees above
the station directly opposite the station commander's office.

Decor
-----

Although most of the station is built using standard metallic and
plastic compounds, that is not readily visible from its habitable areas.
The Crag quite consciously built decorations straight into the interior
design of the station. Most areas are well-treated with Tika wood --
from the Tika tree, one of the other High Trees of Crell -- and colored
in varying shades of brown and green. Even the floors are treated to
appear wood-like, despite being duranium with standard support padding.
Many public areas even have live plants and vines strategically placed
to further hide the artificial construction. While it does not have the
complete arboreal effect that most Crell dwellings have, it is a stark
contrast from the metallic tone common to most Starfleet installations
and vessels.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

Sensors
-------

As scientific exploration is not the primary task of a starbase, much
less a shipyard, sensor systems on Starbase 202 are optimized for
tactical telemetry rather than scientific study. The integrated sensor
suite is comparable to a Starfleet Type-XI sensor array with a high
resolution range of 6 light-years and low-resolution range of 20
light-years. An additional very-short-range sensor system, with a range
of only 50,000 kilometers, provides extra-high resolution for docking
coordination and planetary traffic control. Although not its primary
purpose, the traffic control sensors can also be used for pin-point
targeting of threat vessels in near-theater combat situations, even
against rapidly moving targets.

Science Probes
--------------

The original TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr design did not include any probe
complement. It was not intended as a military outpost, and most tactical
investigation could easily be undertaken by the ample supply of
supporting craft.

Starfleet felt that at least some probe capacity was warranted, however,
so one of the exterior cargo bays on deck 8 was converted to probe
storage and launching. The standard probe complement includes 68 probes
of various classes. If necessary, additional probes can be replicated or
manufactured in the factory.

Computer Systems
----------------

The station's original computer core was completely destroyed when the
few Palpatine on the station evacuated after the destruction of the Star
of Death, so Starfleet was able (or forced, depending on one's point of
view) to start nearly from scratch.

The main computer core is a Federation Micro Devices FMD L-1011
isolinear data center. Although only one deck tall, it occupies the bulk
of the center portion of deck 6. Most of the existing systems on the
station were incompatible with the latest bio-neural technology, so the
main core was supplemented with a network of isolinear optical data
nodes (ODNs) throughout the station. High-speed data trunks link each
node together in a mesh network, allowing any given node to communicate
directly to another node without passing through the main core. Each
deck contains between two and four processing nodes.

Starbase 202 turned out to be the ideal initial deployment for
Starfleet's latest co-venture with long-time partner Nyetscape
Communications. Following the success of the GORBI system used on the
Trafalgar-class Tactical Destroyer, Starfleet commissioned Nyetscape to
produce a similar system targeted at starbase operations. The new system
leveraged most of the AI components of its predecessor, including the
Performance Action Validator-Learned Operational Validator AI kernel
(PAVLOV), Russian Oral Modular Altruistic Neo-Organic Voice UI module
(ROMANOV) for the user interface, and the Limited Entry Network
Interface Node (LENIN) security suite. The underlying systems were
optimized for station operations and for the greater resources available
on a starbase, while the interface retained the Russian accent and
attitude of its sibling system. The final system, the Base-Oriented
Russian Interface System (BORIS) was installed two months after
Starfleet took command of the station and has been active ever since.

The lack of bio-neural circuitry and the expense of integrating
holographic systems into existing habitable space led Starfleet to forgo
any holographic crew systems. The Crag were not wild about the idea of
virtual-people either, having already had their technology advanced
several centuries in a decade.

Maneuvering Thrusters
=====================

Starbase 202 includes a total of 46 station-keeping RCS thrusters. Four
are located on deck 26, angled slightly ventral. 16 are located on the
shipyard, at the dorsal and ventral sides of the junction between the
secondary and tertiary causeways. The remaining 24 are evenly spaced
around the edges of the main core, twelve dorsal and twelve ventral.
Their primary function is station-keeping with the shifting mass and
mass distribution incumbent in a space station. Although overridable
from the command deck, the thrusters are computer-controlled and during
standard operation function autonomously to keep the station in
geosynchronous orbit over the city of Crewel in the southern hemisphere.

Tactical Systems
================

Defensive Shields
-----------------

The weak point of any shipyard is its construction area. Large and
ungainly, centrally-maintained shields have a difficult time protecting
them. The original design for TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr, in fact, did not
include shield coverage for the shipyard at all. Given that it became a
docking area, however, Starfleet felt that adequate defenses were
needed, regardless of the upgrade costs.

Graviton defensive shielding on Starbase 202 consists of two
complementary systems. The first utilizes shield panels arrayed over the
main core and stem to achieve 7219 MW continuous graviton load with a
maximum dissipation rate of 1.95x10\^6 kW. The second, installed by
Starfleet after it took control, taps power off of the main generators
and runs graviton paneling down the top and bottom of each shipyard
causeway. The secondary system provides close coverage for the shipyard,
although it leaves gaps between the causeway. It also connects to the
airlock attachment points, where it can tie into the shielding system of
a compatible vessel and link its shields to the station's. While it
doesn't provide a great deal of additional raw power, it does provide a
cleaner coverage of the docked vessel and a more robust shield geometry.
The system is not compatible with all starships, however, and docked
vessels are still encouraged to depart prior to the commencement of any
hostilities, both for their own safety and for that of the station.

Phaser Systems
--------------

Starfleet felt that Telkintar's original weapons systems were woefully
inadequate and so enhanced them with state of the art Starfleet tactical
systems. That included the removal of all hull-facing sections on deck 6
to make room for a circular phaser strip spanning the entire
circumference of the station on that deck. The strip contains 800 Type
XI phaser emitters in a dynamically configurable array, allowing
anywhere from one to five simultaneous phaser bursts. It's position
allows for 360 degree coverage of station dorsal with a small blind spot
within 50 meters of the top of the station.

Additionally, four phaser strips were phase bonded to the exterior of
the station stem at 45, 135, 225, and 315 degrees to minimize blind
spots from the docking causeways, running vertically from deck 14
through 23. Each strip contains 300 Type IX phaser emitters.

The eight defensive sails were each enhanced with twin type X pulse
phaser cannons, mounted at the end of the sail. Each twin cannon can
rotate a full 360 degrees atop the sail and pivot vertically from -10
degrees planar to 80 degrees. Depending on combat situations the cannons
can be used for offensive fire or defensive interception of incoming
projectiles.

Antimatter Torpedo Systems
--------------------------

The station's primary defensive system prior to Starfleet's take-over
was the Antimatter Torpedo system. The original design was substantially
similar to the AMT used on board the Yub nub destroyer, but differences
in station-based combat led Starfleet to revamp the system for greater
tactical effect.

Special taps from the antimatter storage area in the stem run through
the lower decks to eight defensive sails. There are four sails on each
dorsal and ventral side of the station, mounted at the edge of the main
core at 45, 135, 225, and 315 degrees from station centerline. That
places them 45 degrees off from the shipyard primary corridors to
maximize firing area. Each sail is roughly tetrahedral, ten meters per
side, with one side facing outward from the station. Each sail is topped
by the aforementioned twin phaser cannons.

Each sail also includes a supply of magnetic constrictors. Starbase
202's constrictors are larger and more complex devices than their Yub
nub counterparts, but operate on the same principle. Antimatter from the
main antimatter storage area is pumped into the sail. When armed, a
payload of anywhere from one gram to 20 kg equivalent mass of antimatter
is prepared. A constrictor then activates a short-lived forcefield
around the payload and is launched by sequential field induction out of
the firing tube.

The constrictor itself, in the revised design, is a curved disk one half
meter in diameter, with the concave portion oriented aft. It consists of
a micro-forcefield generator for the payload, a small supply of
deuterium to power the on-board engine, and a transponder to accept
course corrections from the station. There is no on-board navigational
computer, as the constrictor will never be leaving transponder range of
the station and avoiding an on-board computer keeps down the mass and
cost of each unit. Navigational commands are encrypted with a rotating
elliptical 1024-qubit hash to avoid interception. The constrictor also
contains a multimode sustainer engine, modeled on that used by a photon
torpedo.

The firing tube is equipped with a symmetric subspace depression field
that allows the projectile to experience an effective reduction in
inertial mass. As a result, the initial firing process is able to launch
the projectile at 500 kilometers per second. The on-board sustainer
engine accepts a hand-off of that field, allowing the on-board engine to
also benefit from an effective inertial mass reduction. The engine draws
antimatter from the payload as needed to mix with the deuterium supply
to power a M/A fuel cell engine. At full power, the engine is able to
achieve a maximum speed of 100,000 kilometers per second (about 0.3c) in
a straight line, with subsequent reduction in maximum speed if course
alterations are required.

The constrictor itself is destroyed on impact with the target, releasing
the entire anti-matter payload against the target with virtually no
wasteful dispersion into space. The resulting matter/antimatter reaction
dissolves a portion of the target on impact while the resultant energy
released causes secondary damage. Although extremely effective against
physical targets such as a ship's hull or spatial bodies, the antimatter
torpedo is less effective against graviton-based shielding. As a result,
the recommended tactical strategy is to direct a combined phaser blast
from multiple sources at a target to take out its shields and follow it
up with multiple antimatter torpedo strikes to damage the threat
vessel's hull.

Each sail had an original capacity of 200 constrictors, with resupply
requiring external support craft. The additional equipment required for
the upgraded firing tube, however, significantly reduced that capacity.
Instead, Starfleet replaced the constrictor storage bay with the
equipment for the upgraded firing tube and a dedicated single-pattern
replicator. An active-store of 20 constrictors per defense sail is
maintained at any given time. The replicators are able to produce one
constrictor every 4 seconds, while the firing rate for the launch tube
is once every 3 seconds.

Command and Support Systems
===========================

Command Deck
------------

The curvature of the main core results in deck 1 being rather spacious,
at nearly 8000 square meters of usable space. Rather than a single
operations deck, the Command Deck is subdivided into a series of
operational and administrative offices for the station's main functions.
The outer 7.3 meters of the deck is too short for standard habitable
space, so is used for primarily for equipment, storage, weapons lockers,
dedicated ODN nodes for various offices, and similar uses. In some areas
it is also cut into the station to allow for full-height or bay windows.

### Station Commander's Office

The station commander's office is flush against the exterior of the
hull, and includes a floor to ceiling bay window. It is almost perfectly
aligned with Shipyard causeway A, defining the station's x-axis origin.
Station-keeping thrusters keep the office facing the Crell horizon,
allowing the station commander a clear view of Crell's single natural
satellite, Tatooine, as well as the system's star, Beru. The windows
are, fortunately, able to adjust their opacity automatically and
on-demand to reduce the light from the star or simply to provide the
station commander with a less agoraphobic scene.

### Communications Center

Starbase 202's secondary role as a communications hub requires the
support of a dedicated communications staff. The Communications Center
is a large office where personnel may monitor, route, and support
in-bound and out-bound communication. As on a deep space relay station,
the majority of this process is automated. The Communications Center is
also equipped for data analysis, decryption, and intelligence gathering,
however, allowing it to also function as a communications lab and
strategic intelligence center. As a result, it is restricted to
personnel with a class 4 security clearance or better and its operating
rules require that it be staffed by at least three personnel at all
times. The Strategic Operations Officer is considered the department
head for the communications staff.

### Liaison Officer's Office

Shortly after Starfleet assumed control of the station the Crell
government appointed a Planetary Liason Officer to the station. Although
Crell quickly became a Federation member world, a ranking member of the
Crag militia remained stationed on Telkintar to represent local
interests and to liaise with the civilian government. In 2381, however,
the station was rechartered as a recognized civilian village as per
Crell custom and the sitting Liaison Officer, Warwick Chirpa Beniki, was
elected as Chief Elder of the Council of Elders. Although the Chief
Elder nominally retains a civilian title of Liaison, he is no longer
permitted to be a member of the militia and maintains his daily business
in the Council Chambers on the Market Deck. The Liaison Officer's office
is still assigned to the Chief Elder, but is largely unused.

### Flight Control

As with communications, flight control has its own dedicated control
center. With large plate windows overlooking primary causeways B and C,
the Flight Control room is responsible for regulating traffic to and
from the station as well as in the nearby vicinity. It is in constant
contact with the four surface space ports on Crell in order to maintain
a safe and efficient spaceway in Crell orbit. During normal operations
Starbase 202 Flight Control has final authority over traffic within 1
million kilometers of Crell. During alert status, civilian vessels are
encouraged to disengage and return to the surface or leave the system
while primary flight control is transferred to Crewel Spaceport. The
Dockmaster is responsible for overseeing daily flight and docking
activity.

### Situation Command

At the very center of the Command Deck is the Situation Command room, or
"SitCom". During normal operation it is overseen by the Executive
Officer, but is also home to the Chief of Operations' station as well as
other duty stations. The Situation Command room serves a similar
function to the bridge on a starship or "Ops" on stations with smaller
operational centers. A 3-meter diagonal view screen, oriented to face
station 0-axis for simplicity, provides access to external sensors as
well as any other display required. The Situation Command room is also
home to tactical control. The Situation Command room serves as the
central administrative nexus of the station and can access any other
Command Deck functions. During alert conditions it is the duty station
for the station commander, the Executive Officer, the Chief of
Operations, the Chief Science Officer, and the Strategic Operations
Officer.

### Conference Rooms

The Command Deck includes three general purpose conference rooms. All
three are equipped with large data display terminals and personal
terminals for all attendees. Conference room 1 has seating for 12 while
rooms 2 and 3 have seating for 8.

### Officers' Lounge

Although not large, the Command Deck also sports a small lounge area
with replicator and seating for 9. While not useful for formal
functions, it does provide a "water cooler"-like gathering place for
Command Deck personnel.

Data Center
-----------

Centrally located on Deck 6, the Data Center serves as the computer core
for the station. Access is tightly restricted for security reasons, and
dedicated ODN conduits connect the Data Center to the Operations Deck
and the Communications Center in particular. The Data Center leverages
the latest in isolinear systems design to achieve a highly redundant,
distributed system. The L-1011 Data Center, developed by Federation
Micro Devices, consists of 420,172 isolinear chips, each capable of its
own data processing and storage, arrayed into banks of 210 chips. Each
bank operates as a parallel networked unit, and all 2000 isolinear banks
are also parallel-networked.

The resulting network allows for highly efficient processing of data
on-demand, as well as for distributing both data and system software
throughout the Data Center. With floating redundant allocation, the
system has an estimated capacity of 1.2 teraquads of data with
redundancy distributed throughout the system for reduced risk of data
loss. Primary operational software, as previously mentioned, is the
BORIS system developed by Nyetscape Communications.

The Data Center, in addition to isolinear banks, includes operating
stations and computer terminals for up to 28 staff and 14 personnel.

Detention
---------

The Crag are generally a peaceful species, but as with any sentient
species there are numerous exceptions to the rule. There are also many
non-Crag passing through the station, creating the usual problem of
security.

The main security offices are located on deck 7. The Chief of Security
is a Starfleet appointee, as are most of the security personnel, but
some civilian Crag are members of the security force as well. The Crag
also maintain a civilian militia of sorts, and in times of emergency it
can require more effort to keep the Crag civilian population out of
harm's way than to allow them to volunteer and defend their home.

The security office includes office space for four, including the Chief
of Security. The detention center consists of 10 holding cells, each of
which has two cots. Rather than the usual forcefield seal, the front
wall of each holding cell is sealed by two sets of crossed tritanium
bars. Each bar is approximately one half centimeter in diameter and bars
are spaced three centimeters apart. One set of bars slides into place
from top left to bottom right, while another set slides closed top right
to bottom left, creating a grid in front of the prisoners. The bars lock
into place at the bottom and sides of the cell. In case of power
failure, the bars fall into place and lock and require power to open. A
manual crank is also available for each cell, but is placed well out of
reach of any prisoner within the cell even if they were able to get
their hands out through the three-centimeter grill in front of them.

The bars can also be optionally polarized for high-security detainees.
If polarized, touching either the inner or outer grill will result in a
very low-grade electric shock, causing little more than a tingle in most
humanoid species. Touching both, however, closes the circuit and results
in a 50,000 volt shock. The current has an auto-shutoff after 10 seconds
in case a subject has locked fingers on the bars as a result of the
electro-shock. The shutoff can be overridden by a guard as needed.

The detention center originally included three larger holding areas,
each designed for minimal security holding of up to two dozen
individuals. A simple elevator provided direct access from the detention
area to the medical complex on the deck above. According to the Crag,
the facility was used for further "conversion" of Crag that had not yet
been affixed with a Controller by the time of the station's
construction. After Starfleet assumed command, the secondary holding
areas were repurposed for storage and to expand the science complex. The
elevator now connects the Medical Research Lab in the Medical Complex on
deck 6 with the Biological Research Lab on deck 7 in the Science
Comlplex.

The main armory is located adjacent to the detention center, and
contains armaments for up to 900 personnel. Most are kept in storage and
used to replenish docked Starfleet vessels, but equipment to arm 300
personnel is kept on active standby. Each deck also sports an auxiliary
weapons locker.

An auxiliary detention center is located on deck 11 for temporary
holding of prisoners that are being transferred from or to a docked
vessel. It contains two holding cells, each with one cot.

Science Complex
---------------

Although it did not include it originally, Starfleet felt that the
station needed scientific research facilities. Space and construction
limitations, however, limited what could be built. Additionally, many
scientific labs did not make sense on a starbase, such as stellar
cartography. Instead, Starfleet reallocated a large portion of deck 7 to
a series of multi-purpose laboratories. Although lacking in
sophistication found in labs that are built specifically for scientific
experimentation from the start, the flexible configuration allows a very
broad range of experimentation depending on the needs of on-going
research.

Three biological research labs sit below the Medical Complex on deck 6.
Each lab is equipped with bio-containment fields for hazardous material
handling. The prisoner elevator now connects biological lab 1 with the
medical lab on the deck above, allowing for further cooperation between
the departments as needed.

Two high-energy physics labs provide space for such space-bending
research as can be done in a pressurized environment. These labs are,
naturally, reinforced with stronger structural integrity fields and
forcefields than most compartments. Physics lab 2 is also equipped with
a dedicated particle accelerator for quantum research.

A computer and cybernetics lab is situated directly beneath the Data
Center on deck 6, and is equipped for electronic and robotic R&D.
Although it does not have physical access to the Data Center, it does
have a direct data connection for faster processing.

Three additional multipurpose labs are available as well, but lack any
dedicated equipment. They can be reconfigured as needed by order of the
Chief Science Officer. Four smaller side-labs are also available for
spill-over space. An administrative area houses offices for the CSO and
the science staff. Typically, the science staff includes approximately
half Starfleet personnel and half civilians.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

Telkintar's cargo facilities decreased dramatically after Starfleet
assumed control as areas originally used for starship parts storage were
repurposed. Primary cargo facilities are located centrally on decks 11
and 12, and are combined into two large warehouses with three auxiliary
cargo bays. Additional secondary storage is located throughout the
station for smaller components in equipment lockers.

Tractor Beams
-------------

12 main tractor beams provide grapple capabilities for the station. One
is located at the end of each of the shipyard causeway, while four more
are located half-way down the Stem. In addition, each docking port is
equipped with micro-tractor beams for docking assistance in case a
vessel is damaged or otherwise requires assistance in docking.

Transporters
------------

The Crag were not initially fond of transporter technology when the
Palpatine first arrived, and so Telkintar included an unusually low
number of transporter pads for a station of its size. Starfleet has
since converted several compartments into transporter chambers,
particularly emergency transporters.

Palpatine transporter technology at the time of the station's
construction was also considerably behind that of the Federation. The
originally-installed transporters had a range of only 20,000 km, half
that of Federation transporters and not far enough to reach the planet's
surface below. One of Starfleet's key refit goals was to improve the
flow of personnel on and off the station, particularly in emergencies.
That resulted in two key upgrades.

The first upgrade was the addition of remote linking circuitry to
existing transporter chambers. That allowed a remote vessel to
synchronize its transporter with the transporters on the station and
share annular confinement beam frequencies. While it had no effect on
primary transporter range, it did extend the range of standard
transporters to 41,000 km for chamber-to-chamber transportation. That
also places the surface of the planet within transporter range, just
barely, if connecting to a ground-based transporter. Such a transport is
generally only used for high-priority personnel, emergency situations
where time is of the essence, or highly-sensitive or volatile cargo as
it is limited to the city of Crewel directly below and the immediately
surrounding area. Most planetary traffic is still conducted via
short-range shuttle.

The second upgrade was the addition of four emergency transporter
centers around the station. With a range of 20,000 km they are unable to
reach the planet's surface, but they are unusual in that they are
capable of both inbound and outbound transportation, thus allowing them
to be used to evacuate a crippled or doomed vessel nearby.

Six personnel transporter centers are spread evenly throughout the
station. Two are located on opposite sides of deck 3, another two at
opposite sites of deck 6, and two at opposite sides of deck 8. The deck
3 and deck 8 centers are located at 45 and 225 degrees from station
centerline while the deck 6 transporters are set along the perpendicular
axis at 135 and 315 degrees from station centerline. Each transporter
center consists of two ten-person transporter chambers sharing a single
pattern buffer. Transporter Center 1, on deck 3 at 45 degrees, is
reserved for Starfleet personnel. Transporter Center 2, also on deck 3,
is reserved for Starfleet personnel, Federation and Crag dignitaries,
and VIPs. All other transporter centers are open for civilian use.
Transporter Center 3 on deck 6 is deliberately located adjacent to the
Medical Lab.

Emergency transport centers have a capacity of 30 people per transport
in a single transporter chamber. Two are located on deck 5 at 0 and 180
degrees from station centerline, while two more are located at on deck 9
at 90 and 270 degrees from station centerline.

Turbolifts
----------

Rapid transport between different parts of the station is made possible
by a network of turbolift shafts. There are four main turbolift shafts
that run down the center of the main core servicing decks 1 through 12.
They are located at 45, 135, 225, and 315 degrees from station
centerline, approximately 40 meters from station z-axis. Shafts A and C
continue an extra 2 decks to deck 14, but shafts B and D are interrupted
by the Hangar Bay.

Circular horizontal lift corridors connect shafts A to B and C to D on
decks 4 and 12, and shafts A to C and B to D on deck 7. Additionally,
there are "spoke" lift corridors running outward from each shaft on
decks 5 and 11 for 51 meters where they connect to auxiliary shafts, E
through H, that run between those decks.

On deck 5, the spoke shafts touch the outer skin of the station. That
allows for a full 360 degree turbolift ring around the edge of the
entire deck. The Crag, lovers of nature and the outdoors, built a clear
back wall into each turbolift car and built the outer wall of deck 5 out
of heavily reinforced transparent aluminum. The result is that anyone
traveling the outer ring on deck 5 is provided with a 120 degree visible
arc out into space, from which the shipyard is also visible. Senior
officers are able to instruct a turbolift car to ignore standard routing
rules and make a complete circuit around the station, a practice
commonly used during tours for VIPs.

In addition to being good for tourism, the decentralized turobolift
design allows for non-centralized routing of turbolift cars to most key
points within the station, avoiding the "traffic jam" problem
experienced by many stations, with minimal impact on walkway access. All
vertical shafts have stops on all decks while the horizontal shafts have
stops approximately every 25 meters, alternating between sides.
Stairways also connect most decks.

The station has a complement of 25 turbolift cars, of which 20 are
usually in operation at any given time. Each car is circular with a
diameter of approximately 2 meters, allowing for a fair number of
passengers, and responds to standard voice commands. A turbolift
maintenance station on deck 7 provides storage for cars undergoing
routine maintenance as well as workspace for said maintenance.

Crew Support Systems
====================

Starfleet Quarters
------------------

Quarters for senior officers and VIPs are located on deck 2. Typical
senior officer quarters include a spacious living area, sleeping area
with full size bed, a small personal office, and a toilette. VIP
quarters, due to the additional available space, are of similar design
but usually include two sleeping areas. Alternate configurations are
available as well to accommodate families.

General Starfleet quarters are on decks 3 and 4. They are similar in
configuration to senior officer's quarters but 30% smaller. Again,
alternate configurations are available as well to accommodate families,
mostly on deck 4.

Although generally spacious even by Starfleet standards, most quarters
on the station lack full replicator facilities. The Palpatine didn't see
it necessary to include replicator services in the original construction
and the Crag at the time had no replicator technology so it was a
natural feature to leave out. After Starfleet took control of the
station, it was determined that the ample supply of non-replicated food
from the planet below and from the Garden Deck made the expensive
process of installing a complete replicator network unnecessary.
Instead, most quarters were fitted with simple portable replicator units
programmed with basic beverages and a small selection of foods only.
Each unit has its own material buffer, eliminating the need for a
complete replicator network. The living area of all quarters also
includes a small kitchenette, capable of preparing individual meals.
Primary dining facilities are provided on the commercial decks.

Civilian Quarters
-----------------

Civilian quarters are located on decks 4 and 5. Because the Crag as a
practice tend to live in large family units rather than individually, a
large percentage of the quarters on these decks are more of a collection
of apartments than separate quarters. Civilian dwellings range anywhere
from 2-room apartments for a single occupant through family dwellings
intended for as many as 25 individuals. The larger quarters are almost
always occupied by Crag families, although there are exceptions.

Portable replicator units similar to those placed in Starfleet quarters
are available upon request (for a fee), but most Crag forego the
replicator in favor of the larger kitchen facilities available in larger
quarters.

Because of the station's design, only a small fraction of the quarters
on the station touch the skin and have available window space. Such
quarters are, unsurprisingly, in high-demand and are occupied mostly by
senior Starfleet personnel or long-term residents and citizens.

Additional quarters are located on decks 6 and 7. As they are further
away from the main residential areas they are in less demand, but serve
as over-flow when the main areas fill up. Given the large transient
population of the station, their use varies widely over time.

VIP Lounge
----------

A moderately sized lounge is located on deck 2 for the entertainment of
visiting dignitaries or for senior-officer-only functions. Situated to
look out on the planet's western horizon, it includes seating for up to
25 individuals at various tables and benches. Food services are provided
by a replicator bay with 3 replicators and a dedicated kitchen. The
kitchen is not continually staffed, as it is only used for special
functions.

Medical Complex
---------------

Primary medical facilities are located on deck 6, adjacent to
Transporter Center 3. The Medical Complex has facilities to serve the
station's large and transient population, as well as conduct extensive
medical research.

The admissions area is closest to the transporter center and the
turbolift. It leads to a series of 8 individual examination rooms and a
larger, public examination area. Each examination room is fitted with a
single biobed, while the public examination area has 10. A surgical ward
offers 4 private surgical suites with enhanced biobeds, each of which
contains a surgical support frame.

In addition to the main medical area, a medical research lab provides
extensive analytical and research facilities for the station's medical
personnel. A dedicated morgue with capacity for 20 is also located
adjacent to the research lab, separating it from the main public area.

The Medical Complex is overseen by the Chief Medical Officer, a
Starfleet-appointee. Standard staffing includes three other physicians,
both Starfleet and civilian, plus ten supporting medical personnel and
three researchers.

Three auxiliary medical centers -- one on the Market Deck, one on deck
4, and one on deck 11 -- provide first-aid and immediate response
services. They are all equipped with a single biobed and necessary
supplies to stabilize a patient until they can be transferred to the
main medical complex. All medical facilities are required to be staffed
by at least 2 personnel at all times.

School
------

Deck 6 also houses a small academic center. It consists of three
separate classrooms plus a small administrative area. The school is
entirely civilian administered, with the teachers and headmaster hired
by the Council of Elders. Most Crag children attend lessons, and
non-Crag residents are welcome to enroll as well.

Commercial Deck
---------------

Among the major changes Starfleet and Civilian administration of
Telkintar brought was the conversion of most of the lower six decks of
the station to civilian uses. Decks 8-14 were originally part of a
massive construction complex, converting raw materials into components
for starship construction that were transferred out via the docking
causeways to where they were assembled into rapidly produced Furry-class
destroyers. As Starfleet did not have a need to continue to use the
station as a shipyard, and the Crag wished to wipe away that portion of
their recent history, most of that space was deprecated and has since
been repurposed.

Deck 8 has since been converted into a commercial district of sorts, a
combination shopping center and office building. Civilian office space
is available and frequently re-allocated, along with heavy commercial
facilities. Space has been reused for such varied uses as company
management, entertainment complexes, even entertainment production
studios. Selected facilities of note that have remained active over long
periods are listed below. Originally Starfleet administered leases on
this deck, but since Telkintar became recognized as a sovereign village
the civilian government has assumed most of the commercial
administration tasks.

### Holoplex

Although the station did not originally include any holographic
facilities, a holoplex was one of the first additions after Starfleet
opened it up to commercial development. The Latinum Holoplex is managed
by an Andorian entrepreneur by the name of Kalann, and offers
holo-entertainment facilities for both residents and passing travelers.
The facility includes six private holosuites and three holodecks, both
backed by an extensive library of settings. Two of the holodecks run
dedicated, long-term programs in which customers can spend time along
side other patrons, with the specific program varied every few months.
Past programs include "Crell: An amazing adventure" (it was a general
flop), "The Vengeance Factor" (based on a long-running Klingon
entertainment series spanning 4 centuries of the empire), and "Star
Wars", which cast patrons as part of a rebellion against a dictatorial
galactic empire. (A prequel program about the creation of the empire was
pulled after only two weeks due to poor reception.)

Rates are competitive, and Starfleet personnel receive a 10% discount.

### Starfleet News Network

The wide-spread Starfleet News Network has maintained a small office on
the station since about 4 months after it opened. The office consists of
a senior editor and two reporters. Per SNN standard practices, the
reporters work almost independently and the editor aggregates and
processes data from both them and the SNN offices on the surface. Also
per SNN standard practice, they are woefully understaffed.

### The Green Bantha

Despite being named for a large Crell rodent, this restaurant serves a
wide array of cuisine from over a dozen worlds. It is a popular spot
among more affluent clients and non-Crag residents who prefer a finer
dinner from time to time. Although there are typically over a dozen
eating establishments on this deck at any given time, the Green Bantha
remains the most long-lived. Reservations are encouraged.

### Assayers Office

Catering mostly to passing travelers, the station Assayer's office
includes high-security storage facilities for valuables that their
owners do not wish to trust to normal cargo storage services. It offers
230 secure compartments ranging from one cubic decimeter to one cubic
meter in size. Each compartment is secured with transporter inhibitors
and two cm of tritanium, and access is restricted by retinal scan, voice
print, and individual keycode. Override access is available only by
joint order of the station commander and the civilian Council of Elders.

### Replimat

Despite the lack of a full replicator network, Starfleet did install a
Replimat facility. Mostly self-serve, the Replimat offers replicated
foods from a wide range of cuisines. Seating is provided for up to 100
at any give time, although it is rarely full. The Replimat is also the
only public area of the station that is not predominantly Crag at any
given time, as most Crag prefer unreplicated food.

Market Deck
-----------

Whereas the Commercial Deck operates on common formal business
principles, the Market Deck on deck 9 is much more of a Crag
institution. The entire deck is a mostly open bazaar, with no formal
process for space reservation or rental. Most but not all retailers are
Crag, and nearly all are independent vendors. Navigating the market can
at times be tricky, as vendors tend to come and go frequently. Wares for
sale range from fresh foods grown on the Garden Deck to clothing (mostly
custom tailored) to household goods (nearly all of it home-made), to
useless trinkets popular at any tourist destination.

The Market Deck and Commercial Deck are connected by numerous wide
staircases in addition to the usual turbolift access, creating a
combined two deck commercial complex.

Grand Ballroom
--------------

The Grand Ballroom is one of the few living compartments on the station
that spans multiple decks. Entered on deck 8 from the commercial
district, it spans a total of 200 square meters of floor space and
extends upward to include deck 7. Crag architecture tends toward vaulted
ceilings (quite fortunate given that the Crag are just over half the
height of most humanoid species), and the Grand Ballroom is a perfect
example of it. The chamber is vaguely oval shaped, and the walls
painstakingly decorated by Crag artisans to appear as if the visitor
were in a clearing in a forest. The floor is even fitted with the latest
in simulated grass which, while not perfect, is a close enough match to
fool anyone who isn't looking very carefully. A small half-meter tall
hill at one end functions as a podium when necessary. While the effect
is not as complete or perfect as a holodeck, it is nonetheless very
convincing. One would need to actually stand near a wall in order to be
reminded that they are not, in fact, in the middle of a forest.

The Ballroom serves multiple functions at different times. It acts as a
celebration area for the Crag during their assorted festivals, although
much of the festivals often spill out to the Market Deck. When required,
it is also commonly used for official functions and celebrations. Food
services are provided by the many food vendors on the Market Deck below.

Garden Deck
-----------

Another uniquely Crag feature of the station is the Garden Deck.
Regardless of the size of the village or city, families on Crell almost
always maintain their own private garden. Although considerably more
difficult on a space station, the Crag nonetheless converted Deck 10
into, for lack of a better term, farmland. Soil is provided by transport
from the service, while fertilizer and other nutrients are also brought
up from the surface and supplemented by the station's waste reclamation
system. Most Crag families have either a small private plot or
participate in larger shared plots. The produce from this deck -- mostly
fruits, vegetables, and high-water leaves -- is either consumed by the
family or sold on the Market Deck to other residents, passing travelers,
or the station's many eating establishments. Hydroponic technology and
other modern advances ensure that the Garden Deck is able to produce a
large quantity of food year-round.

The Garden Deck is also a not unpopular location for residents or
travelers looking for a natural setting to get away, or for romantic
interludes.

Docking Terminals
-----------------

As civilian traffic has replaced the construction traffic in the docking
causeways, their connection points have been redesigned as well. Where
each docking causeway meets the station on Deck 11 there is a large
terminal and reception area. Each terminal includes a security
checkpoint as well as baggage storage and processing. The
terminal-causeway connection point is sealed by a three-level airlock
for safety, although during normal operations it remains open. Each
terminal has access to the turbolift network, as well as to the Market
Deck via dedicated stairways that bypass the Garden Deck.

The causeways themselves are ten meters wide, allowing for both walkways
and moving walkways at the pedestrian's choice. Below the main walkway
area is a conveyor system that can transfer cargo directly from the
terminal to a waiting vessel or vice versa, or from a docked vessel to
the cargo storage area in the center of the deck. Refueling of deuterium
or antimatter is also possible via conduits also below the main walkway.
Cargo that does not fit through the cargo transfer conduits must be
transferred via cargo transporter.

Ore Processing
--------------

To support the construction effort, Telkintar included a massive ore
processing facility on its lower decks. The facility converted raw
materials delivered by transport from mining facilities elsewhere in the
system and in other systems into purified material for industrial
replication. An industrial replicator then converted those materials
into the necessary components for starship construction, which were then
transferred to the construction facilities.

Primary ore processing is located on the planet-side third of decks
12-14. Since Starfleet assumed control, however, it is no longer in
constant use. Raw materials are still delivered via the hangar bay or by
transporter, but only processed on-demand when needed for starship
repair. It can also be used for deuterium refinement to restock the
station's deuterium supplies, and from there to refuel docked vessels.
The ore processing center is therefore frequently vacant, which does
occasionally cause a security concern with rambunctious youngsters.

Industrial Replication
----------------------

The space-side of decks 13 and 14 house the station's remaining parts
replication facilities, commonly dubbed the factory. There were
originally three such facilities, but the other two were removed and
converted into the commercial decks. The remaining facility is
sufficient for periodic repair and resupply of docked vessels.

Roughly half of deck 12 is dedicated to storage of processed and
purified materials for replication of necessary equipment, and is
stocked from the ore processing center as needed. An industrial
replicator of Palpatine design extends from deck 13 through 14 in the
factory section, and is fed directly by the storage on deck 12 as well
as additional storage on decks 13 and 14. A cargo transporter allows
particularly large components to be transported directly from the
factory out into space, where they can be assembled onto a starship as
needed. The rest of the factory is taken up by cargo space for produced
components, many of which can be quite large and/or ungainly, transport
conveyor systems, and manual fabrication facilities for pressurized
assembly of replicated components. As with the ore processing center,
the factory is a frequent source of minor security concerns despite
being nominally under restricted access.

Although not in regular use, the factory does allow Starbase 202 to
function as a repair station for a variety of vessels even if it is no
longer in the business of starship construction.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

Most traffic to and from the station is via the shipyard docking areas.
However, there is a secondary docking facility reserved for station
support vehicles.

The Hangar Bay is a through-deck that occupies the center portion of
decks 13 and 14, cutting through the station along centerline. It is
approximately 80 meters wide, sitting just between turbolifts A and C,
which provide access to the docking area.

The facility offers docking support for single-deck support vehicles
such as shuttlecraft and runabouts. Instead of being a single
pressurized chamber, however, docking areas on either side of the hangar
bay allow vessels to dock directly to universal airlocks, leaving the
center of the hangar bay open for arriving and departing vessels. An
arriving vessel will approach the hangar bay from station 180, beneath
shipyard causeway C. When it closes to within 50 meters flight control
is transferred to the station computer, and the vessel is brought in
under thruster power only until it is parallel to its assigned docking
port. Micro-tractors on the port then draw the vessel in horizontally
for a secure docking. For departure, the process is reversed with the
vessel departing at 0 degrees from station centerline, beneath causeway
A.

Each docking port is separated by large bulkheads that extend out 25
meters into the hangar. Vessels larger than 20 meters are typically not
permitted to dock. The bulkheads are affixed to rails, and can be slid
forward and back to adjust the size of each docking port as needed. A
series of twenty rolling bulkheads can slide into place from above to
seal the fourth wall, creating a pressurized compartment for vehicle
repair when needed. Pressurization is generally not used unless
necessary to avoid excessive wear on the vehicle, to save power, and
because doing so can, depending on vessel length and position, render an
adjacent docking port unusable while the bulkheads are lowered.

The nine planet-side ports are evenly spaced, and were originally
designed for ore transports. Transport vessels would dock and unload
their cargo directly into the ore processing facility where it was
processed into fuel for the industrial replicators to be turned into
starship components. Although two ore transports are still operating,
they are not often used and are kept on cold standby.

The twenty space-side docking ports are smaller, and support work bees,
shuttlepods, and other small craft. When necessary, however, bulkheads
can be slide apart to allow runabout-sized vessels to dock at the
expense of covering up multiple docking ports, and shuttlepods can dock
equally well at the larger, planet-side docking ports.

The complement of vessels assigned to the station has varied over time,
depending on local strategic and political considerations. A typical
complement includes two ore freighters, one long-range executive
shuttlecraft, four runabouts, eight sublight shuttlepods, and eight work
bees.

In emergencies, hangar bay doors and protective forcefields can activate
to allow the pressurization of the entire hangar bay. Such action is
generally not used except in case of a collision or emergency on the
hangar bay itself, outside of one of the docking ports.

In addition, the Yub nub-class USS Foam is assigned to the station as
lead auxiliary craft. It has a priority berth at docking port B-1. The
station commander is also registered as the Foam's commanding officer.

Technical Specifications
========================

Core
:   Diameter
    :   294 meters

    Height
    :   62 meters

Overall
:   Diameter
    :   584.32 meters

    Height
    :   176.5 meters

    Decks
    :   34

Starfleet Personnel
:   475

Civilian Residents
:   920

Transient Population (average)
:   500

Maximum Capacity
:   50,000

Core
:   Federation Micro Devices L-1011 isolinear data center

Software
:   Base-Oriented Russian Interface System (BORIS)

    Interface
    :   ROMANOV

    Security System
    :   LENIN

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   7219 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   1.95 x 10\^6 kilowatts

-   Antimatter torpedo tubes (x8)

-   -   1 Type-XI phaser strip

    -   4 Type-X phaser strips

    -   8 twin Type-IX pulse phaser cannons

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Situation Room
Flight Control
Communications Center
Office and Administration
Deck 2
------

Senior Officers Quarters
VIP quarters
VIP Lounge
Deck 3
------

Starfleet Quarters
Transporter Center 1
Transporter Center 2
Deck 4
------

Starfleet Quarters
Civilian Quarters
Deck 5
------

Civilian Quarters
Emergency Transporter Center 1
Emergency Transporter Center 2
Deck 6
------

Data Center
Medical Complex
Primary Phaser Array
Transporter Center 3
Transporter Center 4
School
Civilian Quarters
Deck 7
------

Turbolift Maintenance
Detention
Science Complex
Civilian Quarters
Deck 8
------

Commercial Deck
Probe launch and storage
Transporter Center 5
Transporter Center 6
Deck 9
------

Market Deck
Emergency Transporter Center 3
Emergency Transporter Center 4
Auxiliary Medical Center
Deck 10
-------

Garden Deck
Deck 11
-------

Docking Terminals
Auxiliary Medical Center
Cargo
Deck 12
-------

Cargo
Raw processing material
Deck 13
-------

Ore Processing
Hangar Deck
Factory
Deck 14
-------

Ore Processing
Hangar Deck
Factory
Conclusion
==========

Despite its military origins, TelkinTarenDorsrreMarr's transformation
into Starbase 202 has created a hybrid Starfleet and civilian center
with a life of its own. With one of the most active civilian populations
of any Starfleet orbital installation, it remains a symbol of the
rebirth of Crell following its admittance to the Federation.
