---
author:
- Mike Ballway
- Larry Garfield
date: 7 June 1998
...

History and Mission Overview
============================

Following the First Borg Incursion of late 2366 and the subsequent
demolition of a large percentage of Starfleet's defense wing in early
2367, it became clear to Starfleet Command that Klingons, Romulans,
Cardassians, and other near-space forces were not the only Threats to
the survival of the Federation. Dreadnoughts and Heavy Cruisers were to
remain the backbone of Starfleet defense, but Command felt a need for a
smaller, more maneuverable, and less costly ship. The design would need
to be easy to construct, easy to maintain, and cheap to lose, yet
powerful enough to not be lost very often.

With the decision to mothball the older Chernobyl-class, intended to
fill the same role but a total failure in the field, the project became
that much more important. Following the Klingon Civil War one year
later, Starfleet pushed the project into Priority One status, and by
mid-2368 the specifications were ready. Those specifications were
approved in late 2368 and construction on the new hulls began early the
next year. At about the same time as the loss of the Enterprise-D in
late 2371, the U.S.S. Trafalgar (NX-84708) underwent preliminary testing
and was finally proclaimed space-worthy two days after the Klingon
invasion of Cardassia in early 2372.

Cross-Reference: Chernobyl-class
--------------------------------

Vessel Type
:   Light Destroyer

Design Approved
:   1 April 2356

Ships Approved
:   USS Chernobyl, USS Three Mile Island, USS Hiroshima, USS Nagasaki,
    USS Bikini Atoll, USS Alamogordo, USS Enewetak, USS Pokhran, USS
    Novaya Zemlya, USS Marshall Islands, USS Ford Pinto

The 13-deck Chernobyl-class was intended to supplement larger craft in
military maneuvers, as well as engage in tactical scouting and patrol
missions.

For unknown reasons, however, the entire line seems to have been cursed.
All constructed Chernobyl-class vessels were lost or destroyed with all
hands within three years of leaving spacedock. Finally, after the USS
Pokhran exploded as it was leaving the assembly lines at the Churlsan
Han Fleet Yards, Starfleet Command terminated the series.

Mission Profile
---------------

The Trafalgar's official job description is as follows: "Patrol of
Hostile Borders; Escort for top-security shipments; Assistance in
Military Maneuvers."

In major military fleet operations, the Trafalgar is often used as a
complement to more powerful ships such as the Battlecruisers,
Dreadnoughts, and Heavy Cruisers. While these larger vessels direct
massive amounts of firepower at the enemy, the Trafalgar uses its
maneuverability to annoy the Threat and attempt to disable it, as well
as provide an additional distraction while the larger vessels head in
for the kill.

In independent operation, the Trafalgar is equipped for medium military
duty, combat against inferior Threat powers to free larger vessels for
combat against more powerful adversaries, border patrol in high activity
regions, and escort duty. It is designed to pack as much firepower into
a small, easy to build and cheap to lose package as possible.

Structure and Construction
==========================

The Trafalgar-class employs a sharply angled "neck-less" design, similar
to a squared off Intrepid-class, only with a circular rather than
elliptical saucer. Original research determined the optimal number of
decks required was 13, but following the disaster of the
Chernobyl-class, it was decided to increase the ship's habitable volume
to 14 decks and include additional support equipment. Deck Seven runs
the entire length of the ship, while all other decks are limited to one
half of the ship or the other.

The Trafalgar is powered by two warp nacelles on static, straight
pylons, and are located level with the top of the saucer section, to
provide the smallest possible profile. The angled body, while not
necessarily the most warp-efficient, also decreases the overall profile
of the ship.

The hull is composed of a dense duranium/tritanium truss, with a
tritanium composite hull reinforced by a high powered Structural
Integrity Field (SIF). The designers opted to forego ablative armor in
favor of more durable material in the hull itself, which provided nearly
the same hull strength and resistance to Threat firepower while keeping
the vessel's mass low, to allow for higher speeds and a better turning
radius.

For added structural support, much of the ship ties directly into the
main spaceframe. The spaceframe extends far deeper into the ship than in
most designs, allowing the entire ship to take the force of an attack
rather than just one segment of it. The net result is an overall
increase in hull durability and endurance of 17% over traditional
spaceframes. One unfortunate side effect, however, is that some parts of
the ship are therefore not easily replaceable. In one notable example,
the Chief Engineer's chair in his office on Deck 10 is phaser-welded
directly into the spaceframe. In order to save costs during the
construction of the USS Montgomery, NCC-84704, the salvaged CE's chair
from the destroyed USS Chernobyl was used for the new CE's chair, and
gamma-welded into the spaceframe. The Chernobyl class's curse extended
to the Montgomery, which has suffered severe structural damage as a
matter of course ever since.

The exception to the complete integration design is the main bridge,
which, as on most starships, is a dry-dock-swappable module to allow for
easier upgrading. This design has proven invaluable in replacing damaged
or destroyed bridges on the aforementioned USS Montgomery.

Mission Modules
---------------

Although the Trafalgar's main purpose is military operations, the
designers felt that they could not account for every contingency in a
single design, nor did they have the room to do so. As the ship was not
expected to be out of contact with Starfleet that frequently, it was
decided that a basic mission module system was the best way to increase
the flexibility of the design without increasing its size. Each module
is intended to supplement the vessel's existing systems with specialized
equipment for a given type of mission. Although the extra seams where
the module and ship meet are not as strong as the rest of the ship, the
module is recessed a half-meter into its enclosure and the edges are
then covered by retractable locking mechanisms. The net loss in physical
integrity under extreme stress was found to be less than 5%, and in a
location unlikely to receive regular fire, and was therefore deemed
acceptable.

A bay for swappable mission modules is located at the fore end of Deck
Eight, just above the main deflector. It extends roughly 3/5 of the
length of the deck. It is not large enough to include a notable amount
of habitable space, but does allow for dedicated equipment modules that
can be exchanged at your friendly neighborhood starbase to suit a
particular mission. Currently produced modules include:

Torpedo Storage Module
:   The default module, the TSM provides additional storage space for an
    extra 50 torpedoes above and beyond the standard complement.
    Hardpoints connect the storage compartment into the torpedo loading
    system.

Tactical Sensor Enhancement
:   Additional sensor equipment, specifically calibrated for tracking of
    Threat vessels at great distances. Although not useful for
    scientific study or mapping, it does extend the effective range of
    long-range sensors by nearly 30%. Short-range targeting resolution
    is also increased by 15%. Later models include an integrated
    [Emissions Tracking System](#ets), which allows for very limited
    tracking of improperly calibrated cloaking systems. It does not
    provide sufficient resolution to acquire a weapons lock.

Heavy Combat Module
:   The HCM includes an additional torpedo launcher in the center,
    mounted horizontally so that the reactant injectors are placed on
    either side of it. The compact design allows room for two
    forward-facing Type-VIII pulse phaser cannons to be placed on either
    side of the torpedo launcher. An included fusion reactor provides
    power for the phaser banks while storage space at the aft of the
    module provides storage for up to 25 photon or quantum torpedoes.
    These are standard torpedoes with full 360-degree tracking and
    targeting systems.

Minesweeper Module
:   The MM contains storage and control circuitry for twenty Class A
    mines. Each mine utilizes a photon torpedo casing equipped with
    maneuvering thrusters and a phased fusion reactor powering four
    rotating retractable turrets. Turrets are located two dorsal, two
    ventral, fore and aft, and each has a single Type-V pulse phaser
    emitter. When the launch command is given, the computer-controlled
    sequence launches mines in pairs, which then activate an onboard
    computer to maneuver the mine to its designated location. Once all
    mines are deployed, the arm code is sent via a cross-encrypted 1024
    qubit signal, unique to each vessel, and the turrets extend. A
    disarm code and a recall code, also uniquely encrypted for each
    vessel, can be used to take down the field. An Ident Friend or Foe
    (IFF) system monitors transponder codes sent by any ship within
    range. If the code does not match a valid Federation transponder
    code, it is considered a target. The transponder code list can be
    edited only prior to launch. Each mine is programmed so that should
    a target come within 500 meters the maneuvering thrusters will
    propel the mine towards the target and the fusion core will overload
    and detonate.

Science and Remote Sensing Systems
==================================

Sensor Systems
--------------

The Trafalgar-class sensor system is optimized for tactical analysis.
Although it is capable of scientific study if necessary, stellar
cartography is not its forte. High-resolution range is approximately six
light-years, with medium-to-low resolution tapering off after 20
light-years.

Probes
------

A set of ten tactical warp and impulse probes are stored on Deck Eight
along with the torpedo systems. All are designed to utilize standard
torpedo casings for more efficent storage.

Computer Systems
----------------

The design team felt that conventional LCARS systems were not adequate
for an advanced tactical warship. Rather than rewrite a computer system
from scratch or attempt to adapt the LCARS kernel, they decided to form
a partnership with an outside contractor. The Novsibirsk-based Nyetscape
Communications proved eager to take the contract, and made the best bid.
Starfleet and Nyetscape signed a long-term contract for the development
of extensible starship-grade computer systems, and Nyetscape would
provide the development of numerous systems for Starfleet use over the
next several years.

The joint Starfleet-Nyetscape design team decided to develop a modular
system, so as to reduce long-term development costs. They also decided
to utilize an Artificial Intelligence system, based on research
conducted by Nyetscape during the late 2350s and early 2360s, and
incorporating information learned from a prototype project on the USS
Aurora, codenamed "Professor." The core of the system was built around
Nyetscape's Performance Action Validator-Learned Operational Validator
AI kernel (PAVLOV), which allowed the system to learn from past
experience. Universal Translation was provided by the Vessel-based
Unified Natural Translator (WUNT) system, which Nyetscape had used in
certain advanced commercial applications to great success. Rather than
use the Starfleet-standard Multiple Access Jargonistic Enhanced Lexicon
interface system (MAJEL) for user input, the design team decided to
develop a new interface module from the ground up, optimized for an
Artificial Intelligence system. The Russian Oral Modular Altruistic
Neo-Organic Voice UI module (ROMANOV) was developed specifically to
support PAVLOV-based AI systems, and used a decidedly colloquial
front-end. Specifically, it sounds like a Russian Commissar, and acts
like one as well. The system was later upgraded to support Nyetscape's
firewall system, the Limited Entry Network Interface Node system
(LENIN). The final product was dubbed the General Operations
Russian-Based Interface, and the system's avatar became known as
"GORBI."

Unfortunately, due to cost constraints Starfleet insisted on using a
Federation Micro Devices DC-8 isolinear data array core, rather than the
DC-10 as originally intended. The DC-8 was not powerful enough to handle
the added processing required by the GORBI system in software. As a
result, the PAVLOV kernel was burned directly to read-only isolinear
hardware and built into the core's chipset at a base level. The
resulting increase in efficiency made the system both powerful and far
more stable, but had the side effect of rendering the computer
inoperable without the GORBI system active. As GORBI's MTBF is measured
in centuries and has not to date required a full reboot, this is not
much of a problem.

Warp Propulsion Systems
=======================

FTL propulsion on the Trafalgar-class is provided by means of a single
1500+ cochrane deuterium/anti-deuterium-powered warp core, designed by
Warp Cores 'R' Us, a long time Starfleet contractor. Two Zoomer Z-7000
fixed-position nacelles provide subspatial distortion for movement.
Zoomer Enterprises, LLC, a small startup firm based in Santa Clara, CA,
included a 10 year / 10,000 light-year warranty with each pair of
nacelles.

Due to the Trafalgar's integrated design, the engines can maintain a
maximum velocity of warp 9.8 for 12 hours without structural failure. It
can sustain a velocity of 8.6 indefinitely, although standards cruising
velocity is warp factor 6.

Impulse Propulsion Systems
==========================

Andor-based Wegoforu Enterprises, Inc. designed and built the impulse
engine system. Four KT-133 fusion superimpellor impulse engines provide
sublight propulsion. Two are located at the aft end of Deck Six, at the
back of the saucer, slightly outward from the nacelles. One is located
on each nacelle pylon, low, towards the lower end of the pylon towards
the body. This four-part positioning provides enough power to accelerate
the Trafalgar to 0.30c, and allows for unequal-power-distribution-based
steering, as well as thruster-assisted maneuvering. The wide spacing of
the engines makes the Trafalgar extremely maneuverable at sublight
speeds.

Tactical Systems
================

The idea behind the Trafalgar-class was to pack as much firepower into
as small a space as possible, and make it deliverable to any location
within the Federation as fast as possible. The Trafalgar's weapons
systems reflect this military bent.

Defensive Shielding Systems
---------------------------

Graviton-based deflector shields provide the first level of defense for
the Trafalgar. Shield grids are located at key locations around the
exterior of the ship, and provide a combined maximum continuous graviton
load of 1865 megawatts with a maximum energy dissipation rate of
3.7x10\^4 kilowatts.

Phaser Systems
--------------

The Trafalgar is fitted with six Type-IX phaser banks and eight
Type-VIII phaser banks, arrayed around the ship in order to provide
maximum coverage and overlap.

Four Type-IX strips are located on the dorsal surface of the saucer
section, each covering one-quarter of the circumference of the saucer,
starting from zero degrees. They are mirrored by four Type-VIII arrays
on the ventral side of the saucer, offset 45 degrees so as to break at a
different point than the dorsal phaser banks. Each of these arrays
contains 50 emitters in parallel lock.

Two 100-emitter Type-IX phaser arrays stretch along the ventral surface
of the stardrive section, one port one aft. They are augmented by a pair
of 25-emitter Type-VIII arrays running vertically over the exterior face
of the nacelle pylons. Two 50-emitter Type-VIII strips on the dorsal
surface of the nacelles themselves complete the targeting sphere.

Each phaser strip is designed to function in parallel lock only, so it
can fire only a single beam at a time. This design results in a 14%
increase in efficiency and a reduction in reaction time, as well as a 7%
increase in power. Each array is also independently controlled, so all
of the banks can be hooked into the central firing computer if desired,
or they can be operated independently of each other. A fire control room
on Deck Four provides space for multiple personnel to independently
control and operate each phaser bank set either manually or via
computer. Control can also be handled completely via the main tactical
console on the bridge. When centrally operated, multiple banks can be
set to fire at the same target point, providing similar resulting damage
to a single bank with the same total number of emitters.

One battery of five Type-VIII pulse phaser cannons is located at the
front of the ship on Deck Four. The battery is affixed to a moveable
armored plate, allowing approximately 10 degrees of movement in a given
direction; enough for fine aiming provided the target is in front of the
vessel.

Torpedo Systems
---------------

Deck Eight houses two forward facing universal torpedo tubes. They are
located at the outer sides of the deck, with space for the Swappable
Mission Module allocated between them. A third torpedo tube is located
aft, just above the main shuttlebay, also on Deck Eight. All tubes use a
compact, horizontally mounted design for better space efficiency.
Torpedo storage is provided on Decks Eight and Nine to feed both the
fore and aft launchers via automated loading systems. Each tube is
capable of firing photon or quantum torpedoes as well as standard
probes, and can be loaded with up to four torpedoes at once for
sequential volley fire. The Trafalgar carries a standard compliment of
125 standard photon torpedoes.

Turret Systems
--------------

Additionally, the Trafalgar carries a number of dumb-fire torpedoes in
retractable rotating turrets. Smaller than standard torpedoes, these
projectiles do not contain full guidance or warp sustaining equipment.
They carry only a matter/antimatter payload roughly half that of
standard torpedoes and just enough circuitry to maintain level flight at
high velocity. These systems are intended primarily for defensive and
close-in/strafing fighting. They can also be used as anti-missile
defense systems against slower projectiles and anti-fighter defense. Two
turrets are located on the dorsal saucer, one port one starboard, and a
third is located ventral fore of the stardrive section. Each turret is
normally retracted into the hull until needed, at which point it extends
approximately 3 meters to arm. Each turret holds a complement of 25
torpedoes.

Each turret also sports three Type-VI pulse phaser cannons. These canons
can be used against any target, but are intended primarily for defensive
use or when completing a strafing run against a larger target.

The turret pulse canons can also be used for minesweeping. A mine, being
a stationary target without shielding, would not require more than a
single pulse phaser blast to destroy. The three turrets provide full
coverage provided targeting systems can be allocated to the task (vis.,
the ship is not busy firing at something else).

Command and Support Systems
===========================

Main Bridge
-----------

The main bridge module of the Trafalgar-class is based on the same
design principle as the Intrepid-class. The Commanding Officer's chair
is in the center of the bridge, and designed to swivel 360 degrees. The
plush velvet covering, available in 4 custom colors, has been declared
by most captains to be the best designed command seat in the history of
Starfleet. A single Conn officer sits at a wide station in front of the
command seat, facing the large viewscreen. At the port and starboard
sides of the bridge just forward of the command seat are the
forward-facing Science/Operations console and Auxiliary Engineering
station, respectively. In the aft of the bridge directly aft of the
front consoles are the Internal Security and Tactical consoles, port and
starboard respectively. Between them is the forward facing Executive
Officer's station, which serves as both desk and support console for any
other station. Two turbolifts, one on either side of the bridge, give
access to the rest of the ship. A nine-person conference room fitted for
mission briefings and situational analysis sits aft the bridge, and is
accessible via the port turbolift waiting area or the Captain's Ready
Room.

Captain's Ready Room
--------------------

Just port of the main bridge is the Captain's Ready Room. The Ready Room
opens into the turbolift waiting area. Additionally, a trap door behind
the desk allows access to the Captain's quarters on Deck 2 in case of
emergency or sudden Red Alert.

Deck Two
--------

Deck Two houses the Commanding Officer's quarters aft port, directly
below the Ready Room on Deck One. The Executive Officer's quarters
mirror it on the starboard side, allowing space for the Captain's Yacht
between them. Three VIP quarters for visiting dignitaries are fore. Deck
Two also houses a smaller conference area equipped for more diplomatic
and political functions as well as two docking hardpoints with airlocks
for when the vessel is docked at a Starbase.

Utility Systems
===============

Cargo Bays
----------

Four cargo bays on Deck 13 and three on Deck 11 provide ample storage
space for most necessities. The cargo bays on Deck 13 are equipped with
cargo transporters, while the ones on Deck 11 have forcefield protected
cargo doors that open out into space.

Tractor Beam Systems
--------------------

The Trafalgar-class includes a tow tractor beam at the aft ventral end
of the stardrive section. It has a total graviton displacement of 26
megawatts. The main shuttlebay is also equipped with a tractor beam for
guiding incoming shuttlecraft.

Transporter Systems
-------------------

Crew transporters are located on Decks Three and Nine. Each deck
contains two transporter rooms, each of which contains six personnel
transporter pads. They have a range of 40,000 kilometers. Two emergency
transporter chambers with support for 10 personnel each are available on
Deck Seven amidships and Deck 12, with a range of 16,000 kilometers.

Crew Support Systems
====================

Six Forward
-----------

Although the design team originally intended to keep recreational
facilities sparse in order to save costs, the Committee of Officers to
Maintain Manageable Interactive Entertainment declared that if the ship
did not contain adequate recreational and off-duty facilities they would
boycott the entire class. In order to comply with COMMIE's demands, the
design team built a two-level crew lounge into the front of the vessel.
The main area on Deck Six is located fully fore, and includes a full bar
with replicators along one wall and seating for 15, as well as a small
stage area for presentations and performances. A smaller balcony area
with seating accommodations for 8 overlooks the main floor from Deck
Five. The balcony is accessible via a doorway on Deck Five or via a
spiral staircase from the floor below.

Ten Backward
------------

Ten Backward was originally a typo in the design specification. At one
point, the designers used shorthand to indicate the portion of the ship
they were describing in writing. Common shorthand for "Ten Forward" on
most ships is "10-\>". Engineer Mike Engels, however, after a long night
on the project, accidentally wrote "\<-10", which the rest of the design
team took to be a request for a "Ten Backward" lounge. By the time the
confusion has been sorted out, the design was already finalized and
there was nothing to be done.

Ten Backward is located aft of Main Engineering on Deck Ten, and is
reserved as the Engineers Lounge. It is accessible via Main Engineering.
Its exact layout is unknown, as non-engineers have rarely been able to
enter it to find out, but early blueprints suggest that it has seating
for 7, a small bar, and one replicator built into the wall.

Crew Quarters
-------------

As space is at a premium on the Trafalgar-class, standard crew quarters
are one room compartments measuring 4 meters by 5 meters in size.
Starfleet Personnel wanted to design each set of quarters to support two
crewmen, but COMMIE wouldn't hear of it. Each compartment is designed
for a single occupant. Three larger compartments are set aside for
married couples serving on the same ship. Senior Officer's quarters are
a bit larger, consisting of a 3 meter by 4 meter living area and a 3
meter by 3.5 meter bedroom. The Commanding Officer's quarters, Executive
Officer's quarters, and VIP quarters are laid out the same, but slightly
larger.

Holographic Systems
-------------------

Although power requirements would generally render holodecks and
holsuites inappropriate on a warship, the Committee of Officers to
Maintain Manageable Interactive Entertainment insisted. With pressure
from COMMIE breathing down their necks, the design team built a single
holodeck into Deck Five, just aft of the Six Forward upper balcony. A
smaller holosuite is also present on Deck Five.

Medical Systems
---------------

The main sickbay is located on Deck Three. Six standard biobeds and two
more with dedicated surgical support frames (SSF) serve the crew. The
CMO's office is located adjacent to the Sickbay, which takes up the bulk
of the central area of the deck. A small medical research lab is
attached to sickbay.

Alternative Environmental Support
---------------------------------

The main shuttlebay can be pressurized with alternate atmospheres to
support Oxygen-Nitrogen, Oxygen-Argon, Methane, Hydrochloric, or
Fluoride atmospheres. Other atmospheres are possible with proper
configuration. The Command and VIP quarters on Deck Two can be
configured with gravity systems between 0.8g and 1.2g by the Engineering
staff at the request of the occupant.

Auxiliary Spacecraft Systems
============================

Shuttlecraft
------------

The main shuttlebay is located on Deck Ten, although it serves primarily
as a launch area. Storage for shuttles and repair areas are located on
Deck 11 below. Shuttle elevators and conveyors provide a transport
method for bringing a shuttle into and out of the launch area.

The Trafalgar-class carries a standard complement of four type 7
shuttlecraft, all with the optional Type-V phasers installed, for
obvious reasons.

Captain's Yacht
---------------

The Captain's Yacht is located center aft on Deck Two. The
custom-designed executive shuttlecraft has a small, dedicated launching
port equipped with a small tractor beam to guide it in. It comes
equipped with two Type-VI phasers for defense and has a maximum speed of
warp factor 5. Access is restricted to the Commanding Officer, Executive
Officer, Chief Engineer (for repair and maintenance), and other
individuals registered for access by the Captain.

Technical Specifications
========================

Length
:   380.1 meters

Beam (Width)
:   155.4 meters

Height
:   62.8 meters

Decks
:   14

Officers and Crew
:   100

Visiting Personnel
:   10

Maximum Evacuation Limit
:   200

Core
:   Federation Micro Devices DC-8 isolinear data array

Operating System
:   General Operations Russian-Based Interface (GORBI) Artificial
    Intelligence system, provided by Nyetscape Communications

User Interface
:   GORBI ROMANOV

Power Plant
:   One 1500+ cochrane M/ARA core feeding two nacelles

Crusing Velocity
:   Warp 6

Maximum Sustainable Velocity
:   Warp 8.6

Maximum Velocity
:   Warp 9.8 (12 hours)

Full Impulse
:   0.30c

Accellerate
:   2.7 seconds

Decellerate
:   3.2 seconds

Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous)
:   1865 MegaWatts

Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate
:   3.5x10\^4 kilowatts

Torpedoes
:   Torpedo Tubes
    :   3

    Standard Payload (total)
    :   125 photon torpedoes

Phasers
:   -   6 Type-IX Phaser Strips

    -   8 Type-VIII Phaser Strips

    -   1 5-emitter Type-VIII pulse phaser cannon battery

Turret Defense System
:   Number of turrets
    :   3 turrets

    Armaments
    :   dumb-fire torpedoes and pulse phaser systems

Deck Layout
===========

Deck 1
------

Bridge
Conference Room
Ready Room (includes trap door to Deck 2)
Deck 2
------

CO's quarters
XO's quarters
VIP quarters
Captain's Yacht
Diplomatic conference room
Deck 3
------

Sickbay
CMO's quarters
Transporter rooms 1 and 2
Crew quarters, Medical
Deck 4
------

Fire Control Room
Computer Core
Auxiliary Control / Computer Control
Crew quarters, Engineering
Deck 5
------

Six Forward lounge, upper balcony
Holodeck
Holosuite
Crew quarters
Deck 6
------

Six Forward lounge, lower level
Brig
Security Office
COS's quarters
Crew quarters, Security
Deck 7
------

Science Labs
CSO's quarters
Crew quarters, Science
Emergency transporter room 1
Deuterium storage
Deck 8
------

Forward torpedo tubes
Aft torpedo tube
Torpedo storage
Swappable Mission Module
Deuterium storage
Deck 9
------

Transporter rooms 3 and 4
Deuterium storage
Torpedo storage
Deck 10
-------

Main Engineering
CE's quarters
Ten Backward
Main shuttlebay launch area
Deck 11
-------

Cargo bays 1-3
Shuttle parking (2-hour meters)
Environmental systems
Deck 12
-------

Antimatter converter systems
Gravitational regulatory systems
Emergency transporter room 2
Deck 13
-------

Cargo bays 4-7
Equipment and general systems
Deck 14
-------

Antimatter storage
Equipment and general systems
Ships of the Class
==================

The Trafalgar-class was constructed at the Churlsan Han Fleet Yards. All
vessels are named for British military victories.

Constellation
1017-H
Lexington
84700
Boston
84701
Oriskany
84702
Quebec
84703
Montgomery
84704
Wellington
84705
Brooklyn
84706
Brandywine
84707
Trafalgar
84708
Camden
84709
Guilford
84710
Agincourt
84711
Hastings
84712
Savannah
84713
Normandy
84714
Roarke's Drift
84715
Conclusion
==========

The Trafalgar-class was designed to fill in the gaps in Starfleet's
military wing in the areas of support, patrol, and search-and-destroy
missions. In each of these roles, the vessel has proven itself more than
capable, and has been one of the greatest success stories of recent
Starfleet R&D history. The partnership with Nyetscape Communications
would become a landmark decision, and the company would have a healthy
working relationship with Starfleet for years to come.
