---
author:
- Larry Garfield
date: 19 February 2001
...

The Magic Behind the Word "Engage..."
Introduction
============

Like a bad penny, the issue has come up again and again. So, for the
benefit of those who do not have easy access to the Star Trek: The Next
Generation Technical Manual, the following is as complete a description
of warp drive as I can offer at this time. My sources are the TNG
Technical Manual, the Deep Space Nine Technical Manual, the Star Trek
Encyclopedia, 3rd Edition, and the Next Generation Episode "Force of
Nature," the episode which first suggested that warp drive was not
environmentally sound, and other sources as noted. I will stick as close
as possible to the process as described in canonical sources. I would
suggest this treaties as recommended reading for anyone seeking to
understand one of Star Trek's more exciting and least plausible
technologies, as well as anyone interested in tackling the daunting task
of augmenting or improving upon this faith-based technology.

DISCLAIMER
----------

It should first be noted that warp drive relies on not one but several
leaps of faith and suspensions of disbelief. Even though it can and has
been argued by leading modern physicists that warp drive works in
theory, any plausible explanations involve more energy than could
possibly be generated by even a matter-antimatter reaction.
Additionally, several of the key components of warp travel - subspace,
warp fields, warp energy, and the like - have multiple and contradictory
definitions and descriptions, even within the episodes themselves. There
are, therefore, several points where we will simply have to guess or
assume how something works, or simply pass it off as the work of the
magical Paramount Field, which defies the comprehension of, or
manipulation by, mere mortals such as ourselves who are grounded in the
realm of 21st century physics. I believe the following footnote from the
Next Generation Technical Manual, page 64, says it best:

"Early in the series, Patrick Stewart came up to us and asked how warp
drive worked. We explained some of the hypothetical principles described
in this volume, but added that such a device is far beyond present-day
physics. We emphasized that no one has any real idea how to make a ship
go faster than light. "Nonsense," Patrick declared. "All you have to do
is say 'Engage.'" And he was right..."

The Matter/Antimatter Reaction Assembly
=======================================

The heart of the warp drive is the Matter/Antimatter Reaction Assembly,
or M/ARA. It can be easily recognized as that big blue pulsating thing
that dominates most engine rooms. Power is generated by means of a
matter-antimatter reaction, in which both fuel components annihilate
each other and produce pure energy, according to Einstein's basic
equation e=mc\^2, where e is energy in joules, m is the mass in
kilograms, and c is the speed of light in meters per second. In
Federation starships, deuterium and anti-deuterium are used. (Deuterium
is an isotope of hydrogen containing one proton, one neutron, and one
electron.) The deuterium is stored in slush form in tanks, while the
anti-deuterium is stored in large magnetic bottles at the other end of
the assembly.

At each end of the assembly is a reactant injector, one for the matter
and one for the antimatter. While each functions quite differently (due
to the different natures of matter and antimatter), they accomplish the
same goal. The matter or antimatter is compressed and channeled through
one of six redundant nozzles into the Magnetic Constrictor Segments
(MCS, the big blue columns). Inside these segments, strong magnetic
fields compress the stream even further into the Y-axis of the segment
(that is, the centerline), and increase its velocity by between 200 and
300 m/sec. It is critical that the streams be kept at precisely the
center of the segment, so that they land on target for proper reaction
in the Matter/Antimatter Reaction Chamber.

The Matter/Antimatter Reaction Chamber (M/ARC) is the large bulbous
assembly in Engineering. It is designed to withstand the incredible
pressures created inside by the reaction, and to hold the dilithium
crystals necessary for the reaction. Dilithium, which is actually the
abbreviated name for a far more complex crystal, is manufactured out of
simpler crystals that occurs naturally but can also be created
artificially. It is the only material known to Federation science that
is non-reactive with antimatter when subjected to a high-frequency
electromagnetic (EM) field in the megawatt range. That is not to say
that it doesn't react, per se, but that the crystal becomes "porous" to
antihydrogen, and the antimatter particles pass through the crystal
lattice without actually touching it. (This is the first use of the
Paramount Field.)

The matter and antimatter streams strike each other at the exact center
of the M/ARC, inside the dilithium crystal. They come into contact,
react, annihilate, and produce pure energy in the form of plasma.
(Plasma is a form of super-heated matter that is sort of half matter,
half energy.) The crystal also causes the plasma to be released in a
periodic fashion, that is, in a "pulse." The shape of the dilithium
crystal causes the plasma to be split into two separate streams, each 45
degrees off from the vessel centerline aft. Each stream enters one of
two Power Transfer Conduits (PTC), which are the big pink things that
come out of the back of the big ball in Engineering. (Don't you love
this technical language?) There are taps into each PTC to channel a
small portion of the plasma out into the Electro Plasma System (EPS),
which is the equivalent of the ship's power grid. The rest travels
through the PTC to the nacelle pylons, and then up the pylons to the
warp nacelles.

The Warp Nacelles
=================

The warp nacelles are where the first really fun stuff happens. Each
warp nacelle in a Galaxy-class ship has 18 warp coils in it. (It is not
stated if all ships have 18, or if other ships have different numbers.)
Each warp coil is made of imaginary material known only to Paramount
executives, and is shaped like a split toroid, that is, a donut on its
side with a slice across its middle. The PTC splits into 18 separate
injectors, one for each coil. When an injector "fires," it releases a
small burst of plasma energy into the coil, which creates a "warp
field." The injectors fire sequentially fore to aft, with the front 3
firing slightly off-time from the rest so as to take in the saucer
section.

Warp 10, And Other Fun Facts
============================

On the "modern" (TNG-era) warp scale, warp 10 is the absolute maximum
speed. That is because of the way the warp scale is calibrated. The
speed you get from a given power output (in cochranes) and the power
usage itself do not have a 1:1 relationship. Power usage rises
exponentially, while velocity rises logarithmically. The result, among
others, is that the "optimal" efficiency/speed point is in fact
somewhere between warp 5 and warp 6. However, for reasons that Paramount
does not see it fit to explain, it actually takes more energy to reach
an integral warp factor than to maintain it. That's why the ship
generally travels at integral warp factors; it's more energy efficient
in the long term to rev up to warp 7 and stay there than it is to run at
warp 6.8. For that reason, warp 6 is the most efficient cruising speed,
although recent developments in subspace disturbance and Federation
environmental regulations have made warp 5 the legal cruising speed for
most vessels. (See below.) Another odd idiosyncrasy is that after about
warp 9.2 or so, warp velocity begins to increase exponentially as well.
That means the slightest warp factor increase in that range translates
into an immense increase in actual velocity.

Which brings us to warp 10, the universal speed limit. In Einsteinian
physics, the speed of light is unattainable for any object that
possesses mass because as velocity increases, so does mass, while time
slows down. (This is modern, 20th and 21st century physics.) As an
object approaches the speed of light, c, its mass approaches infinity.
Therefore, the energy needed to increase its velocity increases along
with it, and approaches infinity. In order for an object to reach the
speed of light, it would require infinite energy, and the progression of
time would slow to zero. Since neither is possible in our space-time
continuum, the speed of light is not achievable by conventional means.

Warp drive side-steps that restriction by use of the loophole described
below, that is, the velocity in question is relative to the local frame
of reference. If the frame of reference is moving with you, well, you
can't get pulled over for speeding. However, there is still the point at
which energy requirements approach infinite. At that point, velocity
also becomes infinite. An object traveling at infinite velocity would,
by definition, occupy every point within the universe simultaneously, as
the time needed to get from one point to the next would be zero. That is
impossible, however, as it requires that infinite energy be used, and
again that is impossible. In addition, it would require increasing the
firing rate of the warp coils to less than Plank time, which is by
definition the shortest extant unit of time in the universe (1.3
x10\^-43 seconds). Both factors combine to make warp 10 impossible to
attain in any known cosmological plane. (And the reason why most people
consider the Voyager episode "Threshold" to be apocryphal, as the
writer, who was hopefully executed soon after the episode, made the warp
10 barrier out to be akin to the sound barrier, which only required a
stable airplane design to break.)

On Warp Fields
==============

A subspace field and a warp field are in essence the same thing. A warp
field of one cochrane is the amount of warp energy required to push a
ship to warp one. A subspace field is any warp field with a strength of
less than one cochrane, and is measured in milicochranes (thousandths of
a cochrane).

It is the sequential firing of the warp coils that is important. Each
layer of warp field is then off-centered from its neighbor, such that
there is an imbalance whereby there is a greater density of warp field
energy behind the ship than in front of it. In addition, each layer
"presses" upon its outer neighbor, exchanging warp field forces with it,
and radiates a certain amount of energy into subspace, causing the mass
of the vessel to appear to be less. The cumulative forces created by the
field layers cause the ship and the space around it to be propelled
forwards. It is the fact that the space around the ship is also pushed
forwards that avoids the time dilation effects normally associated with
near light speed travel, as well as allows the ship to bypass the speed
of light limit of Einsteinian physics. Such restrictions apply to
objects moving at a velocity greater than c relative to their
surroundings. However, since the surroundings are moving with the ship,
the vessel is relatively stationary and time is therefore not dilated.

If that last paragraph sounds like a brush-off, there is a reason. That
is because this is where the Paramount Field has its greatest influence.
Most technical sources are deliberately vague as to how exactly a warp
field exerts a non-Newtonian force on itself to cause the ship to move
forward. In fact, the only decent description is found in one paragraph
of the TNG Technical Manual, on page 54. It is also one of the best
examples of fancy technobabble that says absolutely nothing. I have
quoted it here for both education and a good chuckle.

"The key to the creation of subsequent non-Newtonian methods, i.e.,
propulsion not dependent upon exhausting reaction products, lay in the
concept of nesting many layers of warp field energy, each layer exerting
a controlled amount of force against its next-outermost neighbor. The
cumulative effect of the force applied drives the vehicle forward and is
known as asymmetrical peristaltic field manipulation (APFM). Warp field
coils in the engine nacelles are energized in sequential order, fore to
aft. The firing frequency determines the number of field layers, a
greater number of layers per unit time being required at higher warp
factors. Each new field layer expands outward from the nacelles,
experiences a rapid force coupling and decoupling at variable distances
from the nacelles, simultaneously transferring energy and separating
from the previous layer at velocities between 0.5c and 0.9c. This is
well within the bounds of traditional physics, effectively circumventing
the limits of General, Special, and Transformational Relativity. During
force coupling the radiated energy makes the necessary transition into
subspace, applying an apparent mass reduction effect to the spacecraft.
This facilitates the slippage of the spacecraft through the sequencing
layers of warp field energy".

For completeness, I will also quote the following paragraph from page
65:

"The propulsive effect is achieved by a number of factors working in
concert. First, the field formation is controllable in a fore-to-aft
direction. As the plasma injectors fire sequentially, the warp field
layers build according to the pulse frequency in the plasma, and press
upon each other as previously discussed. The cumulative field layer
forces reduce the apparent mass of the vehicle and impart the required
velocities. The critical transition point occurs when the spacecraft
appears to an outside observer to be traveling faster than c. As the
warp field energy reaches 1000 millicochranes, the ship appears driven
across the c boundary in less than Planck time, 1.3x10\^-43 sec, warp
physics insuring that the ship will never be precisely at c. The three
forward coils of each nacelle operate with a slight frequency offset to
reinforce the field ahead of the Bussard ramscoop and envelop the Saucer
Module. This helps create the field asymmetry required to drive the ship
forward."

To get an idea of what this all "looks" like, do the following. Take a
piece of paper, a pencil, and a drawing compass. Draw a triangle in the
middle of the paper, about 3 cm long. Place the compass at the front tip
of triangle and draw a circle 4 cm in diameter. Now move the compass tip
back one half-centimeter, and draw a circle 3.5 cm in diameter. Repeat
moving the compass back and drawing a smaller circle until you get to
the back of the triangle. The triangle is your warp nacelle. The first
circle, the largest one, is the warp field from the front-most warp
coil. The next circle is the field from the next coil, created a few
nanoseconds later, and so on. Notice how they bunch up in back and
stretch out in front, creating an imbalance. Also, the faster the warp
coils fire, the denser the warp field layers, and the faster the ship
goes.

On Subspace And The Nature Of The Universe
==========================================

All of warp drive and warp theory is predicated on the concept of
subspace, subspace fields, subspace energy, and other references to this
uber-tech known as "subspace." To understand the Why of warp drive in
addition to the How, it is necessary to first understand what subspace
is. This becomes doubly important when determining exactly how warp
drive becomes environmentally dangerous.

Before we continue, it's probably good to cite the episode that made
such a big deal about subspace, and is one of the most important from a
warp theorist's point of view.

The Next Generation episode "Force of Nature" introduced a new twist to
the world of warp. Apparently, warp drive is damaging to subspace.
Exactly how isn't completely clear, nor is how to fix it. Especially
unclear is what exactly subspace is, as that changes episode to episode.
In "Force of Nature", it appears to be a sort of dangerous "soup" just
on the other side of a cosmic Paramount Field barrier. "Forces of
Nature" leads us to the following finding of fact:

Subspace is an alternate and parallel level of the universe, which can
interact with but is distinct and separate from our own.
There is a barrier between our "normal" space and subspace. This barrier
is not a three dimensional construct, but a cosmic divider of some sort.
In certain regions of space, this barrier is "thinner" or more fragile
than in others. Such regions are said to have a "subspace instability."
In such unstable regions, warp fields can cause the instability to grow,
causing the barrier to become even thinner. The effect is cumulative,
and can be equated to walking over an area of carpet continually.
Eventually you wear through.
Should the instability reach a certain point, a rift between normal
space and subspace is created. From the normal space point of view,
subspace "bleeds" into normal space. It is logical to assume that the
converse is true as well.
A warp core overload, in which the core and nacelles are pushed to
significantly past their rated warp field levels, can cause the
destabilizing effects to be magnified by several orders of magnitude.
Lower warp factors, since they use less warp energy per time unit, are
less damaging than higher ones.
However, there is another episode that presents a very different picture
of the multiverse. In the Next Generation episode "Schisms," subspace is
complex enough to sustain humanoid life of some variety, even though
it's a very different kind of humanoid life. This view is a very
different version of subspace than the pink soup presented in "Force of
Nature".

It is clear that the canonical sources and the episodes are vague at
best and contradictory at worst. Many people have tried to come up with
more detailed theories of what exactly goes on when the sound effects
people press the "Woosh" button. All have their strong points, and all
have crippling weaknesses. The most commonly cited theories are
discussed below.

Carrots and Donkeys
-------------------

In his book "The Physics of Star Trek," Professor Lawrence M. Krauss, a
modern physicist, suggested that warp drive works by "compressing" space
in front of the ship, and "expanding" space behind the ship, that is,
"warping" the fabric of space. By making the space in front of the ship
more gravitationally dense, and the area behind it less gravitationally
dense, the ship will "fall" forwards, as will its immediate surrounding
space. Since the spatial distortions occur at fixed points in front of
and behind the ship, as the ship moves forward so do the distortions,
and therefore the ship moves forward at a constant velocity. (Much like
hanging a carrot in front of a donkey.)

In theory, the warp field somehow creates this distortion in space fore
and aft of the ship by concentrating energy in front of the ship and
"removing it" from behind. Since energy creates a gravitational
distortion just as matter does (according to Einsteinian physics), this
theory works out just fine on paper. In fact, this theory is perfectly
within the bounds of modern physics, and as far as we can tell today
would work perfectly.

The problem, of course, is that to create a gravity well strong enough
to allow an object to "fall" faster than the speed of light requires
several orders of magnitude more energy than the entirety of humanity
has produced in its entire history, somewhere on the order of a black
hole. It is fairly infeasible for a ship to create a black hole in front
of itself every time it goes to warp, especially since it would then
have no way to destroy it. The amount of fuel a starship caries is also
several million times less than what would be needed for such an
undertaking.

Swimming Through Space
----------------------

Another theory is that "subspace" is a thin film of particles throughout
the universe known as the Zero Point Field (ZPF). The ZPF is a recently
developed theory in cosmology that says that at various points in time,
zero-dimensional particles blip into existence out of nothingness, by
literally being "pinched" out of the cosmic fabric. Technically, this
would violate the Law of Conservation of Matter and Energy, except that
they always occur in pairs of oppositely charged particles, which
attract each other, react, and cease to exist leaving no trace behind,
thus restoring cosmic equilibrium. Occasionally, however, these two
particles may blip into existence on opposite sides of the event horizon
of a black hole. When that happens, one of them will fall into the black
hole, and one will go flying off elsewhere. The one that is absorbed by
the black hole will react with an equal portion of the black hole
(technically that means nothing, but it is in fact something, don't ask,
I don't understand it either) and restore equilibrium, thereby also
reducing the mass of the black hole very slightly. The other particle
can be detected by special equipment, and is known as Hawking Radiation,
after noted physicist Steven Hawking. It is actually one of the cooler
ways to detect the presence of black holes.

In any event, one theory of warp drive postulates that the so-called
subspace field (warp field) causes ZPF particles from the front of the
ship to be relocated behind it, causing a ZPF pressure differential,
which pushes the ship forward. In effect, the ship "swims" through a
vast sea of particles that have no mass, no dimension, and exist for an
infinitesimal fraction of a second. This is logically a bit shaky. In
addition, "Schisms" established that subspace is capable of supporting
humanoid life of some variety. The ZPF theory would contradict this
fact, as well as provide no explanation of the pink oil-slick rift in
"Force of Nature".

Over-Hyped Science
------------------

A third option is to look at subspace as a parallel plane of existence
to our own universe that has its own set of laws, akin to the hyperspace
used by Star Wars, Babylon 5, and many other sci-fi shows. By pulling a
"pocket" of this subspace into normal space around the ship, one could
side-step Einstein and Newton and play by Cochcrane's rules, which are
different. This theory would also account for subspace aliens who have a
completely different physiology. The laws of physics are different in
this alternate "dimension", so the laws of biology are probably
different as well.

The hyperspace theory would also explain the "transwarp conduits" used
by the Borg, the Vadwar, and others. Rather than pulling a piece of
subspace into our universe, the ship moves over into that universe,
travels from point A' to point B' in that universe, and then jumps back,
the same way that the Han Solo or John Sheridan get from one place to
another. It would also allow for, potentially, multiple such
"alter-verses", and account for such oddities as fluidic space.

There's only one problem: That's not how warp works, according to the
Tech Manual. Nowhere does it mention subspace being an alternate
dimension, in fact it appears as a completely single-universe concept.
So while it may fit observation, it doesn't fit canon in the slightest.

Flatland to the Nth Power
-------------------------

The final theory is that subspace is merely the name given to those
parts of the universe that exist in a geometrically orthogonal direction
from our spaceframe. That is, the universe really has 4 spatial
dimensions; we're just stuck in the first 3 of them. By somehow
"warping" 3-D space along this 4th axis, we can shorten the effective
distance from point A to point B. Imagine taking a piece of flat paper
and folding it accordion-pleat style, then folding each pleat down flat.
You have a piece of paper that is still "flat" (2 dimensional), but by
manipulating it in a 3rd dimension you have effectively shrunk it. (For
more on life forms in multiple dimensions, I recommend the TV series
"Cosmos" by Carl Sagan, available at your local video rental, and the
book "Flatland" by Edwin A. Abbott. It's a very easy read, and quite
amusing.)

Sadly, this idea, too, runs into snags. Firstly, while it is possible to
then have 4-dimensional species, their protrusion into our space would
not be an alternate plane ("Schisms"). Rather, they would already exist
within out visible frame; we would just only be able to see part of
them. We cannot physically see a hypercube (4-D cube), but we can
picture its 3-D shadow. In addition, it would be impossible for there to
be a "rift" between normal space and subspace, since "subspace" would
rightly include normal space as a subset of it. Therefore, subspace
could not "bleed into" normal space. Nor could there be a "barrier"
between the two if it is simply an orthogonal axis.

Conclusion
----------

So, when all is said and done, what can we say? How can we explain how
warp drive works? There is only one answer, really. All you have to do
is say "Engage", and let the special effects people do their job in
postproduction. It just works.

On Ralph Nader and Environmental Warp Fields
============================================

Of course, not knowing what subspace is means that we can't know how
warp drive damages it. Not knowing how warp drive damages subspace
leaves us with another problem, specifically, what to do about it. It
should be noted here that it is the warp field energy that is the
problem, not the matter-antimatter reaction in the warp core. To equate
the problem to the gaseous byproducts of an internal combustion engine
(carbon monoxide, among others) is incorrect. If one must use an
automobile analogy, a better analogy would be to the wheels of the car.
With each pass the wheel damages the ground under it, until eventually
you get a pothole. (Which would make the subspace rift in "Force of
Nature" a pothole worthy of the south side of Chicago.)

Apparently, one solution to the damaging effects of warp drive is what
is known as "variable-geometry" nacelles, colloquially known as
"swing-wing" nacelles, such as those used on the Intrepid-class.
Variable-geometry nacelles are articulated so that they can "alter warp
field geometry to local subspace conditions." The Star Trek Encyclopedia
also claims that the Defiant-class, as well as others, also uses
non-damaging warp systems, yet do not have variable-geometry nacelles.
This leaves us with a quandary as to how exactly to fix the problem, as
there are apparently at least two completely different ways to go about
fixing it. (Or, perhaps, merely reducing it.)

At this point, the debate becomes purely academic. Without an
understanding of subspace itself (see previous section), understanding
how to fix the damage caused to it is impossible. While this may seem
like a cop out, it is the only answer possible. What does that mean to
ship designers? It means 3 things:

Variable-Geometry warp nacelles are "green", vis., environmentally safe
to subspace, through some unexplained means.
Non-Variable-Geometry warp nacelles can be environmentally save as well,
through some other unexplained means.
A ship design could use either one to be considered subspace-safe.
Therefore (nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!)...
All ship designs, unless otherwise specified, can be considered
subspace-safe by means of a magic wand used not by the designer, but by
Paramount.
This will no doubt come as a great relief to designers who didn't want
to have swing-wing designs but didn't want to be limited to warp 5. Is
it an ideal solution? Not by a long shot. But it's the best we can hope
to do.
