---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Getting started
...

Getting started

[Prev](introduction.html) 

The Players' Handbook

 [Next](navigation.html)

* * * * *

Getting started {.title}
---------------

STF's Abbreviations and Acronyms. {.title}
---------------------------------

*STF* Star-Fleet.com

*LOA* Leave of Absence.

*AWOL* Absent WithOut Leave.

*OOC* Out of Character.

*IC* In Character.

*WeBB* The generic name for the system we use; stands for Web-Based
Bulletin Board.

*effWeBB* The previous version of the WeBB. The added eff is to signify
the grade its designer believed he would have received had he submitted
it at school.

*WeBBspace* The current version of the WeBB. Adopted by STF in Jan 2008
and continually evolving.

*FComm* Fleet Commander. Each of our six fleets has a commander, a
member of the government cabinet who sees to out of character
administration of the fleets, including assisting the president in
choosing new CO's and ensuring that each ship is healthy, has a
Gamemaster and is responsible for discipline should it reach beyond the
ship command level. Fleet Commanders are superior in position to ship
CO's, but are often one of those CO's and may not be superior in actual
rank. The Fleet commander isn't always superior in rank, just in
position. There are still few enough Fleet Captains, that the majority
of FComm's are Captains and only outrank their counterparts by position.

*CO* Commanding Officer (Usually the Captain aboard a ship)

*XO* Executive Officer or First Officer

*GM* Gamemaster. The member who has followed our Gamemaster training
course, graduated and sets the story and pace for the ship they are
assigned. They control the environment in which members play and the
general direction in which the story moves, providing the crew with
various disasters to circumvent and puzzles to solve in order to
progress.

*DH* Department Head. Our five standard DH positions are Counsellor
(CNS), Chief Science Officer (CSO), Chief of Security (COS), Chief
Medical Officer (CMO) and Chief Engineer (CE). Other non-standard DH
positions are called swing positions and include, but are not limited
to, Chief Intelligence Officer (CIO), Chief Tactical Officer (CTO) and
such positions as Fighter Squadron Commander, Chief Of Operations (COO)
and various marine ranks. Swing positions rarely include Junior Officers
and tend to be standalone.

*JO* Junior Officer. The standard four position types are Scientist,
Engineer, Security Officer and Doctor

*NE* Nameless Ensign, an expendable or recurring non-rostered character
usually employed to achieve a specific goal within the mission that a
played character could not easily or ordinarily do. NE's tend to be
played aboard ship whilst a member's rostered character is on an away
team or indisposed. The Academy equivalent is referred to as a Non-Cadet
or NC.

*Mission*. Also referred to as 'sim' (simulation), the story in which a
crew are involved, provided by the Gamemaster.

Logging in {.title}
----------

Once your application for membership has been approved, you will receive
two emails from our Personnel Department. The first will inform you of
your login name and password. The other will remind you of the character
name you supplied in your application, giving you a ship assignment and
your position aboard that ship.

Once you've received this information, you will be able to login for the
first time. Access the homepage at http://www.star-fleet.com/ and, along
the navigation bar to the left of the page, you'll see a box which asks
for your username and password, as shown below:

**Figure 1. The STF Login Screen**

![STF's Login Page](images/handbook/userlogin.png)

\

After entering your login information and pressing enter, the page will
not alter, but the login box will change to offer two options:

- My Account: This allows you to edit your name, user information,
password and general settings.

- Log Out: You will automatically be logged out once every 24 hours of
inactive use to prevent abuse of your account, but this is a manual link
should you be on a public computer.

The home page contains information on recent updates, STF news and will
from time to time inform of any site downtime to allow you to plan
ahead, plus, during times of public election or important events such as
our annual awards ceremony, will provide information on voting and the
current standings.

The top of the page carries links to the STF Library (where this and
other documents can be found), The Office of the President (where our
rules, regulations and history can be found) Latest News section (which
leads to the main page where all the latest news of STF are located),
and the New Project link (where all new Internet Department projects to
improve the WeBB are located)

At the top of the left hand navigation bar, you will find a list of our
fleets, including the Academy and our Command fleet, the latter of which
contains the ships for our government departments.

Clicking on any of these links will take you to that fleets homepage.
The Command fleet contains its own notes area along with ships for the
government departments. The Academy contains its own notes area under
its own homepage, whilst the other fleets have their own command ships.
Ships within the fleet can be accessed by the menu on the left.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](introduction.html Introduction 
  )                        [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](index.html)          Ship Navigation
   [Next](navigation.html) 
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
