---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: 'Ranks, Positions and Roleplaying'
...

Ranks, Positions and Roleplaying

[Prev](promotion.html) 

The Players' Handbook

 [Next](chainofcommand.html)

* * * * *

Ranks, Positions and Roleplaying {.title}
--------------------------------

Character Ranks {.title}
---------------

Civilian: A non Starfleet rank, this adds some interesting
possibilities, including non-standard character races and giving you
more freedom to express yourself than you would have in a Starfleet
specific role.

Cadet: The lowest Starfleet rank, given to any new member serving in the
Academy

Ensign: The lowest commissioned rank. Ensigns are the backbone of STF.

Lieutenant Junior Grade (Lt J.G.): Usually the rank given to a first
time Department Head, it's the cornerstone to later promotions.

Lieutenant (Lt): The rank most usually associated with Department Heads,
Lieutenant is the rank that first allows you to take the Gamemaster
course and qualify to run missions on our ships.

Lieutenant Commander (Lt Cmdr): Usually the rank given to a first time
XO or a senior DH, Lieutenant Commander is the first command rank on the
path towards Captain.

Commander (Cmdr): Given to an experienced XO or an extremely senior
Department Head, Commander is the the final step on the path towards the
centre seat. The rank of Commander requires the Fleet Commanders
permission to be granted.

Captain (Capt): This is the biggie. The rank everyone aims for as a
Cadet. Your first command is an important one and the promotion to
Captain requires a Presidential edict and the recommendation of a Fleet
Commander. Ship CO's are selected by Fleet Commanders, but promoted by
the President.

Fleet Captain (Flt Capt): For exceptional service to the club, the
President can promote members beyond the rank of Captain. Fleet Captain
is a mark of commitment or contribution to the club above and beyond the
usual requirements.

Commodore (Cdre): Somewhat Rare, Commodore is a promotion usually given
to those who have not only made exceptional commitments to the club
above and beyond that which is required, but have done so consistently
over a number of years. This is considered the first of the 'Flag Ranks'

Rear Admiral (RAdm): Rare. Rear Admiral is a promotion given to those
who have not only made exceptional commitments to the club above and
beyond that which is required for a number of years, but have also had a
permanent and lasting impact in developing the club through government
work in Fleets or Departments.

Vice Admiral (VAdm): Very Rare. Vice Admiral is a promotion given to
those who have made exceptional, lasting and long term impacts on the
way in which the club operates and functions. Usually given to those
members who have served as President at least once and have a long
history of government work developing new procedures and working
tirelessly to develop the best procedures and policies for any
Department or Fleet that they turn their hand to.

Admiral (Adm): Ultra Rare. The highest member rank achievable in the
club, Admiral is given by the President to those rare few members who
have given their all for many years and have had a significant lasting
impact on the club in terms of its development through government and
technology as well as a profound impact on how we function and operate
through the implementation of long lasting changes that revolutionise
the Government, the platform on which we operate or the Presidency.. At
present only two people in the club hold this rank. One of them, Admiral
Greg Hertzsch is the man who pays for our server and has been with STF
since the beginning. The other, Admiral Larry Garfield is the architect
of WeBBspace and a longstanding member who has been with us since the
move from Prodigy to effWeBB.

Member Ranks {.title}
------------

Member rank is your out of character rank, as it applies within the
club. Up until the promotion to Captain, it is the highest rank held by
one of your characters, past or present. If you had an Ensign and a
Commander character, your member rank would be Commander.

Upon promotion to Captain, your member rank becomes Captain irrelevant
of whether you currently have a Captain character active in the club. As
a mark of respect for the time, effort and commitment it takes to
achieve this and the ranks above Captain, member rank is concurrent with
your highest edicted promotion.

The only temporary ranks beyond Captain are those held by the President
and Vice President. Upon taking office for the eight months of their
term, the President assumes the rank of Fleet Admiral and the Vice
President the rank of Vice Fleet Admiral. During their term, the
President and Vice President outrank every other member OOC.

Upon the completion of their eight month term however, the President and
Vice President surrender those ranks to their successors and regain
their previous member rank. An Ensign elected president will remain
Fleet Admiral for eight months, but if their member rank after that time
is still Ensign, they return to that rank once more.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](promotion.html)   Getting Promoted 
  [Up](index.html)         [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](chainofcommand.h  Chain Of Command
  tml)                     
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
