---
author:
- Owen Townes
date: 17 June 2001
...

Description
===========

Designed as an upgrade of the EUNIX system, the Core Element replaces
the pre-existing isolinear/bioneural mix with a Quantum/Sub-Quantum
state processor assisted by isolinear and bioneural elements. The
Quantum/Sub-Quantum state processor computes not by 1s and 0s, but by
the 16 quantum states of an electron and the 16 sub-quantum states of
the three constituent particles of an electron. These create a
multiplicative state, allowing for a data bit to exist in one of 768
states. The concept of a quantum-state processor has been around since
the turn of the 21st century. The possibility for a sub-quantum state
processor has been considered since the late 22nd century. Indeed, the
technology has not been the major drawback. Instead, the programming
logic necessary to interpret 768 possibilities has been incredibly
difficult to integrate until recent philosophical advances have enabled
such logic programming to take place.

The core element contains a number (dependent on core size) of one cubic
centimeter packets of high-density hydride ion plasma. Each packet is
surrounded by a state detector which, much like the scanners in a
transporter (Heisenberg compensator included), reads the states of the
electrons and sub-electrons and alters them as new data is written.

Output of the state detectors is routed and managed by bioneural and
isolinear circuitry and secondary processors.

While the detector equipment takes up a sizable amount of space (a cube
approximately 4 cm on a side), the increase in processing power means
that starship cores can be greatly reduced in size. This naturally
allows the already decentralized EUNIX cores to take up less space and
even be located in space that otherwise would be wasted.

Designer's Note
---------------

I would like to thank Michael Bourdaa, who entertained a discussion with
me about quantum processors, and revealed that evidence is growing of
the three sub-electron particles.
