---
author:
- Bret Godfrey
date: 10 August 2000
...

Description
===========

The PSP-1 is designed as a small, inconspicuous surveillance probe used
for localized covert observations. It is meant to be a low observable
"eye" for Security and Intel agents in the field.

Dimensions
----------

Size: 18 cm diameter by 6 cm tall. Mass: 1.9kg

Appearance when hologram is not operating
-----------------------------------------

"Double Pie Tin" shaped, polished silver in color with a transparent
fish eye lens at both the top hemisphere and the bottom. And a .2 cm
band of alternating gold and black hexagons. The gold hex's are antigrav
emitters, the black are echo multisensory scanners.

Control
-------

The PSP-1 can be remotely operated using a slightly modified tricorder,
or other suitably equipped data transmission device. It also has the
option of being "stand alone". I.E.: Being programed to perform a
specified task under specified parameters such as "Follow NE Crime
Lord", or "Patrol parameter on map grid X, at a height of 3 meters,
stopping every 15 meters and take optical/audio scans."

Communication
-------------

The PSP-1 uses a subspace data transceiver found currently used in the
standard issue tricorder. The receiver itself can be configured to only
receive instructions from a specific frequency, location, only during
certain time intervals, or from a person with a specific security prefix
code, or on a broad band. The transmitter also has two configurations.
It can be preprogrammed for continuos transmission of data, or high
speed micro burst. The high speed micro burst is used when the user of
the probe wishes the probe to be low observable. The transmission
happens in only a specified time frame. But can be preset to specified
frequency, or a random frequency. Range of the subspace transmitter is
100m if out in the open, 50m if in a building or cavern, and 20m if the
probe is inside a starship or starbase (because the
starship's/starbase's energy conduits decrease the reliability of the
transmitter).

Stealth
-------

The PSP-1 utilizes a rather unique semiholographic projection technique
for visual camouflaging. It has a dual layer hull construction. The
inner layer is a Garfield LAMINAR hologrid. The laminar hologrid is a
thin (.3 cm) circuit-membrane with micro multi spectral light emitters.
The outer layer is .3 cm transparent aluminum for strength, and clarity
of image projection. Sandwiched between these two layers (the Garfield
Laminar hologrid, and the transparent aluminum hull) is a micro vapor
field of Videon gas. The holographic image is actually transmitted into
the videon gas. Giving the holographic camouflage a low resolution
visual acuity at a reduction in computer proccessor cost over standard
holographic emitters. Even so, 1/4 of the total mass of the probe is
taken up with an oversized isolinear "brick" 7 cm x 3 cm x 1 cm in shape
that's entirely dedicated to the holographic projectors. There are also
4 interlinked standard isolinear chips used for navigation,
communication, sensory memory, and backup memory . Originally, the probe
was to have a spherical shape. But problems in maintaining holographic
imagery at a usable processor work load proved to be insurmountable.
Hence the double pie tin design. The double pie tin reduces the
processor work load by decreasing the volume of area coverage to
basically 3 "sides". The top half, bottom half, and the "edge". A
byproduct of the videon gas is "seamless" coverage of the internal
hologram. Giving full coverage of the probe, even where there is no
holo-emitter. The probe's holographic imager is susceptible to bursts of
high intensity ultraviolet radiation. If the probe should encounter such
a burst (either from a mechanical device, or natural phenomenon), the
Videon gas will lose it's holographic conductivity. The energy still
produced by the laminar holomembrane will ignite the videon gas. Making
the probe appear to be a rather distinctive, free floating pie shaped
green neon light. The green neonish glow will continue for 30 minutes
until either the laminar holomembrane short circuits from the heat
generated, or the gas burns out. When the probe is on the move, there is
a slight delay in the holographic imager. This delay can be perceived as
a visual "bubble" in which the image appears to be liquid as though
you're looking through a bowl of water. The faster the probe moves, the
more the distortion. Though, one would have to be looking directly at it
in order to notice the distortion.

Videon Gas
----------

The Videon gas used in the holographic camouflage holds a magnetic
charge. Which stabilizes the movement of the gas within the shell and
causes the gas to react photo-electricaly with the holo-membrane. The
gas is pressurized near it's micro-condensing point to near liquid form
(aprox. 2200mb) which in turn, helps to produce a clearer image, and
again stabilizes the movement of the gas within the shell. Should the
shell be punctured, the videon gas would eject from the puncture wound
and chemically react with the oxygen in a standard atmosphere to
crystallize into a reddish brown dust. The crystals are generally
harmless, but if breathed, can cause severe irritation in the lungs do
to there jagged edges.

Sensory
-------

The probe utilizes standard sensory devices found in current issue
tricorders to record and identify visual, radio, subspace, and audio
signatures. Note: it is not meant for use as a scientific collection
device and hence has no micro or subatomic scanners. The probe's soul
purpose is to monitor it's surroundings and report on any changes it
observes. The range for the audio sensors is approximately 30m if out in
the open, 20m if in a cavern or building, and 15m if in a starship or
starbase. Depending on the sound. The probe has two visual
digispectrometer lenses that are fish-eye in shape with a diameter of 4
mm. One located topside, and one below to give the probe a near perfect
360' visual acuity. When the probe's visual scanner is activated, a
magnetic ring (1 mm thick) bordering the visual scanner produces a small
negative charge which repulses the videon gas out of the visual range of
the scanner. Thus the visual scanner would only be noticeable when the
scanner was active, and then only if the observer happened to be looking
directly at it.

Propulsion
----------

The probe uses a series of antigrav projectors around it's surface. It
can travel up to 1m/sec. with an acceleration up to .5m/sec. (It takes
two seconds to get into full speed).

Power
-----

Rechargeable sarium krellide crystal. The crystal gives the probe a
maximum energy life span of 48 hours. But power usage is depended upon
how far/fast the probe has to travel, how hard it has to work to
maintain it's stationary position, activation of the holo-emiter,
computer processor loads, sensory usage, and transmission usage. If all
systems are running at full output, the probe only has enough energy for
7 hours of continuos use.

Self-destruct mechanism
-----------------------

The probe has a physically motivated self-destruct mechanism. Should the
probe be subjected to a high burst of energy (be it radiation, or other
forms such as heat, graviton etc.), the energy burst is channeled into a
low tech detonator circuit that activates a 20g charge of phosphorous.
The phosphorous will ignite and immediately melt the inner workings of
the probe, along with the outer dual hull. The phosphorous will not
totally destroy the entire mass of the probe, but melt it into a useless
burning lump of silicon and transparent aluminum. The self destruct
mechanism can also be remotely controlled in the off chance that the
probe should become immobile or disabled either bynatural, or
intentional obstruction. In the event that the probe is purposely sent
on a mission where it is pre-determined that it will not be returning,
it can also be programed to operate until the power levels drop past a
certain level. Leaving just enough power left in the probe to activate
the self destruct mechanism.
