---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
keywords: 'PC/NPC, Miscellaneous Device, Operating System and Interface, I'
title: 'AMOS-I'
...

AMOS-I

[Prev](tech.html) 

Ship-Based Technologies

 [Next](bigrig.html)

* * * * *

AMOS-I {.title}
------

Maintainer

### Robert Archer {.author}

Primary Designers

### Robert Archer {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

12/04/2015

Approved by Assistant Engineering Director Aaron 'Marmot' Colhoun

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[History and Technology Evolution](AMOS.html#idp140478706915952)

[Conclusion](AMOS.html#idp140478706922704)

History and Technology Evolution {.title}
--------------------------------

In 2360 a year after the launch of the Galaxy class explorer USS Galaxy.
Starfleet R and D began experimenting with the creation of its first
adaptive multipurpose computer platform. The project code named Amy
attempted at first to create a true artificial intelligence but
difficulties with data storage and the adaptive algorithms involved at
the time, prevented this from being a reality. In acceptance of this
limit of the technology Starfleet R and D instead focused on an adaptive
computer operating system capable of a multitude of computer processing
functions.

Many naysayer R and D engineers and scientists argued that the venerable
LCARS operating system with the MAJEL interface, proven time and again
to be far more reliable then any other so far developed systems
combination did not need replacement. Yet the influential designers of
Project Amy were not about to have their work so quickly discarded.
Calling in favor after favor the lead designers eventually convinced and
strong armed enough of the R and D admirals to proceed forward on their
own terms and see what would evolve.

Because they did not have the full backing they had at the start of
Project Amy the designers reworked their original ideas. Instead of an
artificial intelligence they decided to create a new combination
operating system and interface for front line starships. Renaming
themselves to Project AMOS-I as the year of 2363 came about the
engineers and scientists had made little progress in the design of the
operating system half of their dream project. However, the interface
portion had made many milestones towards completion. Yet in another
three years on the eve of 2366 the breakthrough for the algorithms for
the operating system occurred after months of intensive work.

Ready to put their pet project to the test they equipped an Oberth class
vessel with the AMOS-I setup and compared it to another Oberth testing
vessel with the standard LCARS OS and MAJEL interface. Testing crews
gave mixed results for the AMOS-I setup compared to the LCARS/MAJEL
competitor. From taking input for their project the R and D designers
found that while the testing crew found the adaptive functions of the OS
and Interface more comfortable the learning curve required to adapt from
the standard LCARS/MAJEL was steep, the reviewing R and D admirals were
not happy of this part of the test as a result. However, one plus side
for the AMOS-I setup was in the operational benchmarks compared to the
LCARS/MAJEL competitor AMOS-I performed 33.6% more efficiently and
effectively then its counterpart.

This was due in no small part to the ground up building work of the
adaptive algorithms. They were designed to first observe a user's habit
of operation then assemble the top 15 most commonly used tasks for easy
access via tab selection. Furthermore, the algorithms as they evolved
developed a personality matrix to match the crew that worked with it.
This 'bonding' as the R and D designers called it forged faster response
times in critical mission tasks, such as tactical, science and more
mundane everyday tasks.

Still despite these improvements compared to the LCARS/MAJEL setup
common throughout the fleet the AMOS-I design never got further then the
testing stages, mainly because the lead designers in the end could not
accept a total rewrite of their base code to make the interface and
operations more user friendly like LCARS and MAJEL were.

Conclusion {.title}
----------

In conclusion, the AMOS-I while having the potential to revolutionize
Starfleet's operating and interface management devices, sadly failed to
come into acceptance because of the shortsightedness of its designers
and some would say stubborn egos. Perhaps in the future this, for now,
shelved project would see the light of day once more when either
Starfleet and the Federation decide to embrace the dramatic change
AMOS-I would bring or else an eyes wide open designer could merge the
best of LCARS/MAJEL to the efficiency of AMOS-I. Till that time the
project for all intents remains a back shelf memory that some say was
ahead of its time.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](tech.html)        Ship-Based Technologies 
  [Up](tech.html)          [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](bigrig.html)      Basic I/O Grunt,
                           Regimented Information
                           Grouper
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
