---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
keywords: 'NPC, Destroyer, Escort, II'
title: 'Yub nub-class'
...

Yub nub-class

[Prev](monolith.html) 

Ship Specifications (Support)

 [Next](spec-auxilary.html)

* * * * *

Yub nub-class {.title}
-------------

Maintainer

### EDept Staff {.author}

Primary Designers

### Larry Garfield {.author}

Original Designers

### Larry Garfield {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 2

24 August 2001

Approved by Engineering Director Bret Godfrey

Revision 1

20 June 1998

Approved by Engineering Director Owen Townes

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[History and Mission Overview](yub_nub.html#idp140478700178832)

[Structure and Construction](yub_nub.html#idp140478700190912)

[Science and Remote Sensing Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700196624)

[Science Labs](yub_nub.html#idp140478700198688)

[Sensor Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700200160)

[Computer Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700201824)

[Warp Propulsion Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700204336)

[Impulse Propulsion Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700208496)

[Tactical Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700212112)

[Defensive Shields](yub_nub.html#idp140478700214112)

[Phaser Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700215600)

[Anti-Matter Torpedo Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700217520)

[Command and Support Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700220064)

[Bridge](yub_nub.html#idp140478700222080)

[Utility Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700223456)

[Cargo Bays](yub_nub.html#idp140478700225488)

[Tractor Beam Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700226976)

[Transporter Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700228368)

[Crew Support Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700229984)

[Sickbay](yub_nub.html#idp140478700231968)

[Galley](yub_nub.html#idp140478700233872)

[Holographic Systems](yub_nub.html#idp140478700235696)

[Weapons Locker](yub_nub.html#idp140478700237792)

[Stairs](yub_nub.html#idp140478700239392)

[Crew Quarters](yub_nub.html#idp140478700241216)

[Head](yub_nub.html#idp140478700242896)

[Technical Specifications](yub_nub.html#idp140478700246112)

[Deck Layout](yub_nub.html#idp140478700287408)

[Deck 1](yub_nub.html#idp140478700289376)

[Deck 2](yub_nub.html#idp140478700292112)

[Deck 3](yub_nub.html#idp140478700296560)

[Ships of the Class](yub_nub.html#idp140478700300336)

[Conclusion](yub_nub.html#idp140478700331040)

[Illustrations](yub_nub.html#idp140478700334416)

History and Mission Overview {.title}
----------------------------

"To boldy save money by reusing someone else's ships."

—Starfleet Accounting

Late in 2373, the Romulan Empire contacted the Federation for assistance
against a new enemy. This enemy struck quickly, without warning, and in
large numbers. This enemy was the Crag, the most dangerous enemy the
Federation had faced since the Dominion War. During the course of the
Crag War, Starfleet forces drove the Crag from world after world, but
suffered heavy losses in the process.

Several types of Crag vessel were encountered during the course of the
War, most designed by the Overlords for use by the Crag in a massive
territorial grab. Some ships included large dreadnoughts, troop
transports, and medium cruisers, but by far the most deadly was what
many crews began to call the Furry-class destroyer. These ships were
very small in comparison to Federation ships, but were incredibly fast
and attacked in large numbers. Federation weapons found them easy to
destroy individually, but since they usually operated in large packs of
50 to 100 ships this was a daunting task, one that many Starfleet ships
did not survive. Little was known of them during the course of the war,
except that they, like most Crag ships, were not very sturdily built,
and often were held together with what Alliance Chief Science Officer
Hriss referred to as "stick staples."

When Crell was applied for admission to the Federation in early 2374,
Starfleet R&D was granted several of these ships to examine. What they
found surprised them. The Furry-class ships were relatively thin-hulled,
using a triple-layered vacuum-sealed diamond-laced compressed aluminum
hull, not used in the Federation since the orbital vessels of Earth's
early 21st century. The interior of the ship was divided not by
full-fledged bulkheads but by double-layered vacuum-sealed compressed
aluminum of the same variety. This explained why the Furrys were so easy
to destroy in small numbers, as well as how the Crag were able to build
so many.

Most parts of the ship were inferior to Starfleet designs, but two items
did draw the engineers' attention. The first was the weapons system.
Furry weapons consisted of a single phaser array on the front of the
ship, slightly less powerful than Federation standard but not by much,
and a charged anti-matter magnetic projectile system, also known as
anti-matter torpedoes. It was this last item that was significant. (A
more complete description is given below, in Tactical Systems.) Powered
by the ship's large anti-matter storage facility, it hurled charged
packets of anti-matter at a target. While no where near as effective
against shields as photon torpedoes, the AMT was deadly against ships'
hulls and planetary targets. The second and more important surprising
feature was the head. Most Starfleet vessels came equipped with a single
chamber pot, usually located near the photon torpedo launchers. This
proved to be very inconvenient, especially in ships that were able to
separate their saucer section. The Furry, however, had very well
equipped facilities, which the constipated engineers found to be quite
useful and relieving.

When Crell was admitted to the Federation, Starfleet realized just what
they had in their hands. Crell, as part of its admittance, turned over
to Starfleet nearly 5,000 Furry-class destroyers in perfect working
order. The Accounting Department refused to allow this twist of fate to
go unexploited, and Starfleet immediately began to work to upgrade these
ships for Starfleet use. The end result -- a product of cooperation
between Starfleet and Crag engineers and private industry -- was the Yub
nub Destroyer. The word "yub nub" in Crill, the Crag language, means
"freedom," and the designers felt it was only appropriate to name the
new prototype in honor of the Crag liberation from the Overlords. The
upgrade process took approximately two weeks per ship, and, much to the
pleasure of the ever-present Accounting Boys, did not require a large
amount of capital. Impressed with the performance of the prototype,
Starfleet ordered the entire Crag armada converted into useable Yub nub
vessels. The Refit Team consisted of:

-   Commander Johnathan Denerio, Starfleet R&D
-   Lieutenant Qunya Quenzia, Starfleet Public Relations
-   Protate Warwick Chirpa, Crag Defense Force (CDF)
-   Nyetscape Liaison Vladimir Gustavanov

The official purpose of the Yub nub was to save money by upgrading
existing ships instead of spending the time and effort to design new
ones. Eventually, however, the Yub nub Refit Team decided that the Yub
nub did have a useful purpose. It's small size and high maneuverability,
combined with its ability to maintain a high speed for long periods of
time, made the Yub nub well suited for several mission profiles:

-   Long Range Scout
-   Border Patrol
-   Base Defense
-   Escort
-   Pack Attack Wing

It's ability to function independently of larger craft for extended
periods of time and the fact that there are a lot of them meant that the
Yub nub could be easily deployed for long range scouting missions in
deep space or as a lone border patrol craft. In case of emergency when
Starfleet would have to be notified of an incident, the Yub nub is
unique in that it would be able to outrun most pursuing craft and inform
Starfleet itself. It could additionally cover a larger portion of space
without resupplying than larger Federation vessels, since it could
maintain a higher warp speed for longer periods. For offensive strategy,
Starfleet learned from the tactics used during the Crag War. A lone
Furry-class Destroyer usually faired little chance against most of
Starfleet's warships. It's only chance in these situations was to try
and avoid being hit and run away. In large numbers, however, the Furry
was almost unstoppable, as while the Starfleet ship was targeting one
attacker a dozen others were attacking the Starfleet ship from all
sides. The Yub nub was more durable than its predecessor, and the Refit
Team decided that squadrons of eight ships were the most reasonable
offensive strategy. For more defensive tactics, base defense and escort,
the Yub nub was grouped into squadrons of three or six ships.

Structure and Construction {.title}
--------------------------

"The nacelle pylon is connected to the body. The body is connected to
the main bridge. The main bridge is connected to the enemy weapons."

—Engineering Cadet Jingle

The Yub nub consists of a single elongated body, three decks tall,
tapered slightly to a rounded end fore. Two fixed warp nacelle pylons
extend from rear amidships in a curve downwards, ending in the two
nacelles themselves. The nacelles are roughly 1/2 meter below the main
body, and reinforced on the bottom, such that they serve as extra
landing skids in addition to the four landing struts that extend out of
the bottom of Deck 3. The Yub nub is capable of repeated takeoff and
landing from planetary surfaces with gravitational forces up to 1.9g.
The vessel's dorsal is equipped with the main weapons/sensor array,
which houses both the long-range sensors and the projectile tubes for
the charged anti-matter magnetic projectile system.

The Furry-class initially was designed using triple-layered
diamond-laced hyper-gague compressed aluminum with sandwiched
vacuum-sealed layers. Though not as strong as the titanium hulls used on
Starfleet ships, it was enough to maintain pressure and environment for
the ship and did not buckle under the stress of rapid vector changes.
However, it also did not meet up with Starfleet safety regulations. As a
result, the refit process included the infusion of a multicarbonate
titanium/silicate gel into the vacuum layers, providing increased
structural integrity, higher resilience to matter-based and energy-based
attacks, and nearly three times the environmental heat retention, with a
resulting increase in energy efficiency. The outer hull was also
reinforced with three centimeters of ablative armor, excepting areas
where that was not possible (the undersides of the nacelles and the
gangplank).

The original Furry-class had eight chambers on deck two. The fore-most
was the computer control center, where the main computer core was
located. Immediately aft were the access stairway and the transporter
room. Next were four barracks rooms, each of which housed a dozen Crag
boarding troops in poor conditions. Aft of those were located two
storage chambers for consumables and weapons for the boarding troops.
The Starfleet Refit Team decided that there was no need to house 48
boarding troops, and decided to convert those rooms into other
facilities. (See elsewhere in this file.)

Science and Remote Sensing Systems {.title}
----------------------------------

"Unable to comply. EWOK is a registered trademark of LucasFilm, Ltd."

—Yub nub computer system, alpha release

### Science Labs {.title}

The starboard-middle compartment on Deck Two was converted from a
barracks into a basic science lab. Geological, stellar-cartographic, and
bio-analysis equipment is provided, along with detailed instruction
manuals for all equipment.

### Sensor Systems {.title}

The main sensor array is located in the weapons/sensor array on the
ventral surface of the ship. The range of the sensors is less than that
of larger ships of the line, but considerably farther than other vessels
of its class, with a maximum range of 8.5 light-years at low resolution
and 2.5 light-years at high resolution. The navigational deflector dish
is located at the fore end of the ship, below the AMT projectors.

### Computer Systems {.title}

The computer system of the Furry-class ships was in all respects quite
inferior to Starfleet computers of the same era. The hardware system was
based on the old-style duotronic architecture, and the OS was little
more than targeting scanners, life support control, and engine
regulators. Some members of the Refit Team felt that the entire system
should be completely scrapped and replaced with one of the new AI
systems now being employed on several newer starships, but Accounting
refused to spend the money to rewire the entire ship. Instead the Team
settled for replacing the main computer core's hardware and software.
The hardware was replaced with a DC-3 isolinear array computer system
from Federation Micro Devices. It was not as advanced as the computer on
the Sovereign-, Intrepid-, or even Galaxy-class ships, but given the Yub
nub's smaller size it was adequate for the task. The Operating Software
was custom built by the ever-friendly people at Nyetscape
Communications. Although some members of the Refit Team still wanted
Nyetscape to design a ROMANOV-based AI, budget restraints forced them to
settle for a component-based, scalable system called Enhanced Waveform
Object Kernel (EWOK). Written in the Cappuccino language, the EWOK
system used the Starfleet-standard Multiple Access Jargonistic Enhanced
Lexicon interface system (MAJEL) voice interface system, run from
on-chip voice samplings. The final product was a stable, dependable,
reliable computer system that had no fancy bells and whistles, but more
than adequately handled the limited systems of the Yub nub.

In addition to the interface, the Team also programmed the computer with
most standard and non-standard maneuvering tactics. As the ship's
primary defensive tactic was to dodge and run, it had to be able to do
that very efficiently. The computer was given almost complete control of
the basic maneuvering properties, and the Ops console on the bridge was
rigged so that the Ops officer could give general commands, such as roll
left or yaw right, and the computer would automatically translate those
into appropriate impulse and thruster controls. This resulted in far
more maneuverability and a far lower reaction time than could be
accomplished by a human, or by a larger vessel with a larger inertial
mass.

Warp Propulsion Systems {.title}
-----------------------

"Faster! Faster! Faster!"

—ED Mantra

The Furry-class was technologically inferior to standard Starfleet ships
of its time in most respects, but one place where that was not the case
was its warp propulsion system. Utilizing eight matter and antimatter
injector nozzles at each end of the horizontally mounted warp core in
combination with reinforced magnetic generators in the Magnetic
Constrictor Segments, the core was able to achieve a reaction efficiency
not thought possible on a ship of its size. In addition, Overlord
technology included drastically improved matter-to-antimatter conversion
systems, which allowed the ship to remain independent for longer periods
as well as provide sufficient fuel for the warp system and the AMT. The
converter is configured to remain active almost constantly.

The Yub nub has a cruising warp speed of warp 5. Its maximum safe speed
with the antimatter converter fully powered is warp 8.7, at which it can
maintain a constant antimatter reserve level. It can maintain a speed of
warp 9.4 for a period of 12 hours before structural damage begins to
occur. Heavy use of the AMT, however, will result in depleted antimatter
supply and subsequent reduction in warp capacity until the antimatter
can be replenished.

Impulse Propulsion Systems {.title}
--------------------------

"You can't kill what you can't catch."

—The Roadrunner

The Yub nub's impulse system was left mostly unchanged from the original
Furry design. It consists of a single, wide fusion-powered impulse
engine in the aft of the ship, capable of achieving a maximum velocity
of 0.32c.

Maneuvering is achieved by means of unequal power distribution across
the impulse grid. Additionally, several quad-pack-maneuvering thrusters
are located at various points around the exterior of the ship to provide
extra maneuverability. This unique combination allows the Yub nub to
achieve far better sublight maneuverability than other vessels of its
size, and in testing it was able to outmaneuver several Danube-class
runabouts and Starfleet fighters.

Tactical Systems {.title}
----------------

"He who shoots last laughs best."

—Ulysses S. Grant

### Defensive Shields {.title}

Defensive shielding is based on the same gravitational distortion and
deflection technique as most Starfleet vessels. The main shields have a
maximum graviton load of 451 megawatts, with a maximum dissipation rate
of 9.3x10\^2 kilowatts.

### Phaser Systems {.title}

Main weaponry on the Furry-class was provided by a single Type VIII
phaser array on the fore of the vessel, which wrapped around
horizontally to provide approximately 240 degrees of coverage. Starfleet
did not believe that this was sufficient protection for its crews,
however. The refit process added three more Type VIII arrays to the Yub
nub, one running the ventral length of the ship, and two on the dorsal
side on either side of the weapons/sensor array. The two dorsal phaser
arrays extend over the back of the ship and curve inwards to cover the
aft section as well. All phaser arrays are equipped with 20 emitters,
and together provide full 360-degree coverage.

### Anti-Matter Torpedo Systems {.title}

The most intriguing system on the Furry-class was the charged
anti-matter magnetic projectile system, more commonly known as the
anti-matter torpedo (AMT). The AMT worked by siphoning off anti-matter
from the anti-matter storage compartment on decks two and three and
channeling it to the dorsal weapons/sensor array located above deck one.
There, the anti-matter (anti-deuterium) was stripped of its orbiting
positrons and locked into a magnetic field generated by a magnetic
constrictor. The magnetic constrictor is a small device, only ten
centimeters in diameter, which serves only to create and maintain a
magnetic field capable of holding the charged anti-matter for a short
period of time. The constrictor was then propelled by the force of the
stripped positrons, which were projected against a magnetic dish on the
constrictor, out of one of the two forward- or one aft-facing AMT tubes
at a target. Each AMT tube had a firing radius of only 45 degrees, and
once fired the projectile had no built-in propulsion or navigation
systems. Upon contact with a target, the constrictor is destroyed by the
impact and the anti-matter, now highly charged, is released against the
target without having been diluted by deep space particles, the main
drawback of an anti-matter spread as used by the Enterprise-D during the
First Borg Incursion. The charged anti-matter reacts with the target,
causing a matter/anti-matter reaction which "eats up" the target in the
reaction and releases huge amounts of energy in the process, causing
further destruction.

The AMT system was left essentially untouched by the Refit Team. Each of
the three firing tubes is capable of launching 1 projectile every 1.8
seconds. The two forward tubes can work in tandem, firing alternately
with each other to release a projectile every .9 seconds. Two tubes can
not fire simultaneously, however, as soon as a projectile is launched
another projectile can be readied for a different tube. The AMT is not
an effective weapon against energy-based shielding systems, as there is
no matter with which to react. It is, however, quite effective against
any material defense, including starship hulls, starbase hulls,
planetary installations, and even celestial bodies themselves. This last
target, that of a natural celestial body, was, to the best of
Starfleet's knowledge, only used twice during the War. The first
instance was against the Borg colony on Yavin, during the USS
Montgomery's first contact with the Crag. The second was to destroy the
primary satellite of Sith. Sith is a world approximately 40 light-years
from Crell, and is home to the Seetha, a reptilian race. Sith's primary
satellite, Xizor, was a major colony and production center, and the
Crag, under Overlord control, destroyed it as a demonstration of what
would happen to Sith if they did not surrender. (A source of animosity
between the two races ever since.) In both instances, over 2000 ships
were involved in a sustained, concerted attack. While such an attack is
still possible with the Yub nub, it would again require thousands of
ships working in tandem for a sustained period of time, as well as a
reason to do so.

The Yub nub can store up to 500 magnetic constrictors. A dedicated
replicator in the weapons/sensor array can produce extra constrictors on
demand and ready them for loading at a rate of 1 every five seconds.
Each projectile can be independently armed with anywhere from 1 gram to
100-kg equivalent mass of anti-matter.

Command and Support Systems {.title}
---------------------------

"Pinky, If you touch the gravity controls again, I shall have to hurt
you."

—The Brain

### Bridge {.title}

The main bridge is located forward on Deck 1. The trapezoidal
compartment consists of one station for each officer on the ship,
although not all are staffed continually. The Commanding Officer has a
forward-facing swivel chair center aft in the chamber. Directly in front
of him is a single helm station, which centrally controls the navigation
of the ship. Four duty stations are present, two side aft and two side
forward. Originally, they were dedicated clockwise from the Conn to
Engineering, Operations, Tactical, and Environmental, respectively. The
Yub nub refit included upgrading each station to be able to handle any
function, although by tradition they are still assigned to that purpose.
Typically they are staffed by the Chief Engineer, Executive Officer,
Chief Tactical Officer, and Chief Medical Officer, respectively, with
the Chief Science Officer manning the Conn. That is by no means fixed,
however, especially as the crew are often elsewhere on the ship while on
duty. A high-resolution 3-meter gas plasma display at the fore of the
bridge serves as a view screen.

Utility Systems {.title}
---------------

"I think so, Brain, but how much wood would a woodchuck transport if a
woodchuck could transport wood?"

—Ensign Pinky

### Cargo Bays {.title}

The two aft cargo bays on Deck Two were left intact. They serve as the
primary storage facilities onboard the Yub nub. No dedicated cargo
transporters are present, but material can be transported in and out by
the main transporter systems.

### Tractor Beam Systems {.title}

A single tractor beam emitter is located ventral aft on the Yub nub. It
has a combined output of 8-megawatt graviton displacement power.

### Transporter Systems {.title}

A basic four-pad transporter room is located on the port side of Deck
Two, just aft of the computer core. The control station is located
against the port wall. The transporter has a nominal range of 35,000
kilometers.

Crew Support Systems {.title}
--------------------

"Strike, Strike, Strike!"

—Communist Baseball

### Sickbay {.title}

The port-fore barracks on Deck Two was converted into a small sickbay
facility. Due to limited support in the construction itself, most of the
equipment is portable equipment designed for field hospitals that has
been tied into the ship's power grid directly. Sickbay also relies on
the main computer for processing. Specialized load-balancing software in
the EWOK system automatically prioritizes processing requests based on
current ship status to avoid having the medical systems tie up the
entire computer during a combat situation, and vice-versa. Three
biobeds, one equipped with a surgical support frame (SSF), provide ample
facilities for the crew of six.

### Galley {.title}

The port-middle barracks on Deck Two was converted for use as a communal
galley. The Furry-class was not equipped with replicators in each
quarters, so rather than the expense of adding the requisite conduits
the Refit Team opted to install two general purpose replicators on the
fore-wall of this chamber and designate it the galley. These replicators
are capable of producing an adequate variety of foodstuffs for
consumption, as well as small non-edible entertainment objects, energy
levels permitting. Two rectangular tables with seating for four each
complete the facility.

### Holographic Systems {.title}

Holographic systems are limited to the single holosuite on Deck 2. The
refit team originally intended to forego any holographic recreational
facilities due to energy constraints, but political pressure forced them
to change their minds. When they announced that holographic systems
would not be included, the refit team was contacted by the Committee of
Officers to Maintain Manageable Interactive Entertainment. COMMIE
insisted that the crew of the Yub nub would have to have adequate
recreational facilities or else they would call a subcommittee to
consider the idea of striking on the Refit Line. Due to the shortage of
space on the ship, the Refit Team replaced the starboard-fore Deck Two
barracks with a generic Holosuite. Not as elaborate as a Holodeck, it
did meet COMMIE's demands. No other holographic systems are included.

### Weapons Locker {.title}

Immediately aft of the bridge is the lone weapons locker. Although
originally intended to hold enough munitions for three dozen Crag
troops, peacetime operations and the reduced crew have reduced its
usefulness. Standard store is 10 type I phasers, 16 type II phasers, 10
type III phaser rifles, two dozen photon grenades, and eight
energy-resistant vests.

### Stairs {.title}

Given the vessel's small size, the original Furry-class designers did
not see it necessary to go to the expense of including a turbolift.
Instead, a simple two-part staircase fore on the ship runs from deck one
all the way to deck three. During the refit, Starfleet decided that in
order to better protect the ship from disaster the staircase should be
sealable. Therefore, three double-ply diamond-laced steel bulkheads were
installed at the entryways, one on each deck. The bulkheads can be
closed on command from the crew, and automatically seal off all decks in
case of hull breach.

### Crew Quarters {.title}

The six members of the command crew of the Furry-class were given
private quarters on Deck 1, apart from the Crag troops on Deck 2.
Although the troops are no longer present, the six-person crew still has
its quarters on Deck 1. All six are single-room compartments containing
a twin bed, nightstand, table, and couch or love seat. Quarters do not
have private replicators. The CO and XO are located aft most, closest to
the Head.

### Head {.title}

Unlike Starfleet ships, the Overlords had built the Furry-class with
full facilities, located in the aft section of deck one. It is suspected
that the Overlords had not originally intended to provide this luxury
for their Crag slaves, but as an Overlord was often present on a ship to
maintain loyalty, they soon discovered that Crag, when not kept clean,
begin to emit microscopic particulate matter into the air which produces
a distinctive effluvia, as well as larger particles which settled on
objects and trapped this effluvia to the surroundings. To avoid the
drawbacks to efficiency produced by this dilemma, the Overlords provided
a section of the ship for the Crag to rid themselves of this particulate
matter in a non-offensive manner. The discovery of several dozen vessels
left in permanent dry-dock at Starbase 202 which lacked this feature
tends to confirm this hypothesis.

The Furry- and Yub nub-class head is located at the aft section of deck
one, with a single entrance from the main corridor. The rear wall of the
chamber is curved to match the curvature of the ship itself, with a
1.5-meter gap between the outer wall and the inner wall. Two
quarter-circle corridors occupy this space, with entrances at the fore
sides of the room, which have liquid-hydrogen monoxide emitters in the
ceiling and walls and waste collection slots at the sides of the floor,
which is slanted inward. A subject enters one of these corridors at the
fore-end and passes through the dihydrogen monoxide emitters, which
remove 98% of the particulate matter given off by the Crag, as well as
most other species. The subject then passes through another door at the
back of the chamber into a smaller room two meters square. This room is
equipped with high velocity gaseous projectors on all six walls, which
enables the subject to remove the excess dihydrogen monoxide left over
from the quarter-circle chambers in a minimum amount of time. This room
then opens into the main chamber. Arranged around the back wall of the
chamber are four triangular regions divided off from the rest of the
chamber by thin steel plating, which extends approximately 3/4 of the
way from the floor to the ceiling. These partitioned sections each
contain a standard waste collection bin, with a hydrogen monoxide rinse.
In the center of the chamber is a large pipe, one meter in diameter,
which carries the anti-matter from the storage area below to the dorsal
weapons array. Although some officers were concerned that this close
proximity to the anti-matter would result in undue exposure to
anti-proton radiation, the radiation levels in this chamber were found
to be only .0002% higher than the average level throughout the ship.
Around the anti-matter carrier pipe is a circular hygienic dihydrogen
monoxide fount, which is activated by infrared sensors implanted in the
carrier pipe.

All waste material extracted by the facilities is channeled to the
matter storage and replication generator on deck three for recycling.

Technical Specifications {.title}
------------------------

"Keep at room temperature, do not operate after consuming synthahol."

—Yub nub Pilot's Manual

**Dimensions and Structure**

 Length 
:   16.4 meters

 Beam (Width) 
:   13.2 meters

 Height 
:   11.8 meters

 Decks 
:   3

**Crew Complement**

 Officers and Crew 
:   6

 Maximum Evacuation Limit 
:   30

**Computer Systems**

 Core 
:   1 DC-3 Federation Micro Designs isolinear array computer

 Operating System 
:   Enhanced Waveform Object Kernel (EWOK), provided by Nyetscape
    Communications

 User Interface 
:   MAJEL

**Warp Systems**

 Power Plant 
:   One 1500+ cochrane M/ARA cores feeding two nacelles

 Crusing Velocity 
:   Warp 5

 Maximum Sustainable Velocity 
:   Warp 8.7

 Maximum Velocity 
:   Warp 9.4 (12 hours)

**Impulse Systems**

 Full Impulse 
:   0.32c

 Accellerate 
:   2.9 seconds

 Decellerate 
:   5.9 seconds

**Defensive Systems**

 Shield Maximum Graviton Load (Continuous) 
:   451 MegaWatts

 Shield Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate 
:   9.3x10\^2 kilowatts

**Offensive Systems**

 Phasers 
:   -   4 Type-VIII Phaser Strips

 Antimatter Torpedo System 
:    Forward Torpedo Tubes 
    :   3

     Aft Torpedo Tubes 
    :   1

     Magnetic Constrictor Payload (total) 
    :   500 magnetic constrictors

Deck Layout {.title}
-----------

"Oops! Silly me. I had the map upside down."

—Thesus

### Deck 1 {.title}

-   Bridge
-   Quarters
-   Head

### Deck 2 {.title}

-   Computer Core and Control Room
-   Transporter Room
-   Sickbay
-   Holosuite
-   Science Lab
-   Mess Hall
-   Antimatter storage

### Deck 3 {.title}

-   Main Engineering
-   Antimatter storage
-   Deuterium storage
-   Equipment
-   Landing struts, gangway

Ships of the Class {.title}
------------------

"OK, how many of you get the jokes here?"

—Larry Garfield, Designer

The refit process was performed at the Arbuckle Ship Yards at Zeta
Maxtor III. Arbuckle Ship Yards Chief Oscar D. I. Edwards oversaw the
operation.

The first six ships of the Yub nub-class were officially christened at
the same time at a large ceremony at Starbase 202. They were all named
for concepts central to the Crag religion, and also key concepts in the
Crell Planetary Anthem: [Note: These ships are reserved for active RPG
status.]

-   USS Yub nub (Freedom), NCC-80486
-   USS Yah wah (Power), NCC-80487
-   USS Glowah (Glory), NCC-80488
-   USS Foam (Light), NCC-80489
-   USS Nuv (Love), NCC-80490
-   USS Ya chaa (Fight), NCC-80491

The rest of the Yub nub-class was commissioned over the next few months,
as the modification process was completed. They were all named for
characters from Crag mythology, and included: [Note: These ships are
reserved for NPC status, and may be recycled.]

-   USS Apostocos, NCC-80492
-   USS Balham, NCC-80493
-   USS Betts, NCC-80494
-   USS Fondacaro, NCC-80495
-   USS Friel, NCC-80496
-   USS Gavam, NCC-80497
-   USS Grizz, NCC-80498
-   USS Bowley, NCC-80499
-   USS Agostino, NCC-80500
-   USS Coppen, NCC-80501
-   USS Corrie, NCC-80502

Conclusion {.title}
----------

"apt-get install Yub\_nub"

—Debian

Though originally a ship of war, the upgraded Furry-class ships proved
to be capable of peacetime operation as well. It served as both an
offensive ship, a defensive ship to protect stationary installations,
escort vessel, patrol, scout, and distance exploration. Although some
medical personnel were concerned that a crew of only six would lead to
psychological difficulties, none of the crews of the first six Yub nub
vessels complained about the close quarters. The first Yub nub in
service was the USS Glowah in the Fourth Fleet, although others were
later added to both the Fourth Fleet and the rest of Starfleet. Standing
in stark contrast to the larger, better powered, up-to-date Starfleet
ships-of-the-line such as the Sovereign-class and the Trafalgar-class,
the Yub nub proved that it wasn't the size of the ship that mattered, it
was how fast it could move.

Illustrations {.title}
-------------

These other visual representations of the Yub nub are available.

![](images/tm/yub_nub-top.png)

Yub nub Top View

![](images/tm/yub_nub-deck1.png)

Yub nub Deck 1

![](images/tm/yub_nub-deck2.png)

Yub nub Deck 2

![](images/tm/yub_nub-deck3.png)

Yub nub Deck 3

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](monolith.html)    Monolith-class 
  [Up](spec-support.html)  [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](spec-auxilary.ht  Ship Specifications
  ml)                      (Auxiliary Craft)
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
