---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Gamemaster
...

Gamemaster

[Prev](textbook-engineering.html) 

STF Academy Textbook

 [Next](textbook-medical.html)

* * * * *

Gamemaster {.title}
----------

### Amanda Noon {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 5

5 May 2012

Remove course proctor name from exam body.

Revision 4

29 June 2011

Exam revised by David Wonderly

Revision 3

6 December 2005

Course rewritten by Amanda Noon

Revision 2

13 October 2005

Changed course proctor to Amanda Noon

Revision 1

19 September 2005

Added to Library

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Introduction](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-intro)

[What is a GM?](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-101)

[Finding Your Idea - The Story](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-102)

[Tools of the Trade](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-103)

[Section A - Styles of
GMing](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707716320)

[Section B - Types of
Interaction](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707731888)

[Section C - Mission Types](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707756576)

[Section D - Resources
Available](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707766176)

[Planning a Sim](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-104)

[Common Problems when starting out](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-105)

[Pace](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707788800)

[We see no mission](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707791328)

[Why simplify, when you can
overcomplicate?](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707795360)

[Voiding Posts](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707800544)

[Thou shalt not kill](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707802320)

[Nor destroy the ship](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707804016)

[Star Trek Canon](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707805696)

[Show respect for your fellow
players](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707807968)

[Conclusion](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-conclusion)

[Acknowledgements](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707814576)

[Exam](textbook-gamemaster.html#gm-exam)

[Section A: Facts and
Mechanics](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707822992)

[Section B: Show Me the
Money](textbook-gamemaster.html#idp140478707841120)

Introduction {.title}
------------

Welcome to the Academy's Gamemaster (GM) course, offered in cooperation
with STF's GM Department (GMD). If you've got a story idea and you want
to be a GM, this course will help you know what to expect when you get
that first GM assignment. If you're a GM with one or one hundred sims
under your belt, this course will give you a brief introduction in the
ways of GMing within STF. STF is a unique environment, sometimes a
veteran GM needs to flex to work within STF's way of doing things.
Hopefully this course will show you how to successfully make it through
the rough patches that are bound to occur.

In STF you cannot be a GM before being a Gamemaster Trainee (GMT). It
doesn't matter if you've mastered live action games and run players
through dozens of have-dice-will-travel dungeons, or if you're the best
role-player in STF. Everyone wishing to be a GM must participate in the
GMT program before being certified as a GM. If you are as good as you
think you are, you’ll soon be running people's lives in no time anyway.
A couple of months with a mentor looking over your shoulder aren't going
to stop that from happening. But by having a screening process we
protect our membership from shoddy GMing, at least we hope to weed out
the good from the "haven’t got a clue".

The pass rate for the exam at the end of this course is 75%, passing the
exam is the first step to becoming a GM. You will need to read the
current version of OGRE to find out what the current requirements are to
continue. You can find OGRE here: http://www.star-fleet.com/gmd/. This
document also lists all the rules you will have to abide by when GMing
in STF. It will be your responsibility to check the GM Dept regularly
for any changes. These rules are made to protect you and the players, by
having rules it is hoped that disputes will be short lived and easily
settled.

Homework - Intro: Go read OGRE, better to know what you are signing up
to before you sign up. If you don't agree with our rules then now is not
the time to become a GM for STF.

What is a GM? {.title}
-------------

The first and most important thing for you to know before you move past
this page is that a GM's job is to entertain his assigned crew. Contrary
to a very popular belief, being the GM doesn't make you a puppet master
nor a god. The crew isn't there to do your bidding; you're there to show
the crew a good time. The GM is not there to run the ship, or to hound
players for going AWOL; we have Captains and First Officers for that.

"Regardless of skill, a GM needs to have a good rapport with the crew.
Whether it’s as an evil mastermind, a benevolent leader, a weenie, he
has to be on very good terms with them." (Unknown GM)

Think of the GM as a cruise director, his job is to make sure all the
passengers are happy and have things to do. He gives them a choice of
activities from which to choose so they're not bored, even if it means
everyone is doing something a little bit different. He also makes sure
no one throws the deck chairs around. Just one passenger flinging a
chaise lounge is liable to ruin the cruise for the others.

"Be honest with the crew. If you make a mistake, admit it. Don't be
afraid to be human. If a player posts something that you don't
understand (a bit of physics you don't grasp or a hunk of engineering
with which you're unfamiliar) ask the player to explain. Not only will
you get the information you're lacking, you'll make the player feel good
for being so creative." (Unknown GM)

Being a GM requires juggling ego, talent and humility within a ring of
common sense. You have to be tolerant without being a pushover; strong
without being overbearing; flexible without being unfocused; and most of
all, able to put the needs/wants of the crew above your own personal
desires.

"Ask questions if you're stuck. If there's a particular piece of
technobabble that someone brings up in a sim that confounds you, then
ask for advice from someone else; the GM Monitor (if applicable), the
CO, someone from the Engineering Department." (Unknown GM)

A GM also needs to accept that when they agree to GM a ship they are
taking on a commitment to that crew and CO. He has a responsibility to
post often, read all posts and work with the Command Staff to keep the
ship a happy place. That means not accepting a GM spot when you know
that you are going to have to go LOA for a long term within the next few
weeks. Organising with the CO as to how things will continue if you do
have to go LOA and setting in place some sort of contingency plan should
an emergency arise and you cannot post. We have all been grabbed by the
real life monsters at times, be it illness or computer breakdown. There
are ways to cope with this.

Likewise, look at the posting speed on a ship. While the posting
requirements may say every three to four days, as GM you will probably
need to post more often. Be prepared to post as frequently as required
to keep the story moving.

Finally a GM needs to be professional. Really that is the crux of
everything that has been said above but there is one very good example
of this. One of the old GM commandments was "Thou shalt not antagonise
thine enemies"; this still stands. It’s bound to happen; you are the GM
on a ship with someone you don’t like, being a GM does not give you the
authority to make that player’s life hell. Sure it would be great fun to
lock up your sworn nemesis with a love struck moose. Yes, assimilation
may do wonders for another foe’s personality. The temptation - even the
justification - can be strong; do NOT give in to it, doing so only
serves to shorten your GM career.

While we are on the topic of professionalism, the chain of command needs
to be discussed. In a perfect world everyone would get along, each day
would be filled with sunshine and your work would be applauded by the
newest ensign all the way to the most venerated admiral. Unfortunately
life isn't like that, STF is no different, chances are pretty good that
you’re going to have a problem with one of your GM assignments. Maybe a
player keeps writing counteractive posts. Maybe the Captain isn't
holding up his end. There may be a personality clash. Whatever the
problem, always remember to follow the chain of command, start with the
CO. If the problem can't be rectified or the CO is the problem then go
to the Fleet Commander. If you still can't get resolution you can
approach the GM Director for input. The final step after trying all
these avenues is to talk to the President, it's doubtful you'll ever get
this far. Ensuring you have a good rapport with the CO should prevent
ever needing this advice. Communicate with the CO regularly, ask their
advice, they know the crew better than you do. Talk to the players
themselves, after all this is a game and we are all supposed to be
having fun. You wouldn't run to the School Principal every time someone
upset you, don't do it here.

So if you still want to be a GM after reading this, then here is your
first assignment, you'll need to hand these homeworks in with the final
exam.

Homework - 101: What would your contingency plan be? How important do
you feel it is to be in contact with the CO and XO?

Finding Your Idea - The Story {.title}
-----------------------------

When you're a GM the first thing you need is a story, it's hard to run a
sim if you have no plot. There is no hard, fast rule on where to get
story ideas, inspiration is as unique as each GM, and can be found
everywhere. Television, books, movies, magazines, even the news can
provide story ideas, look around, your next story could be hidden in the
autumn leaves.

As GMs we can find a lot of inspiration from the STF characters,
themselves. For instance, if the CO of the ship is a Bajoran, what
better antagonist can you find besides a Cardassian? Or maybe another
character has lost one spouse to divorce, and another to death. What
would happen if that character were forced to marry to save a Federation
alliance?

The plot is only limited by your imagination. However, there are a few
guidelines to follow to make sure the crew loves the story as much as
you do.

1.  Make sure the plot is big enough to keep everyone busy. If it's not,
    you may have to add a secondary storyline to involve those left out.

2.  Avoid scenarios used to death in STF, as well as plots your ship has
    seen before. Check with the CO of the ship to which you're assigned,
    ask him if he has preferences, make sure that the battle sim you
    have planned isn't going to be the third one in a row the ship's
    been dealt.

3.  Familiarize yourself with your ship's class. A wonderful sim
    exploring the exobiology of a newly-discovered planet won't work
    well on a Trafalgar or Kansas. Just as sending a McCoy into battle
    is suicide. Determine a ship's capabilities ahead of time, too, so
    you don't have a ship doing a saucer separation that would normally
    only be possible if it were blown in two.

4.  Make sure your plot is plausible. Sure, it'd be really cool if the
    ship crash-landed, but unless the ship is capable of sub-orbital
    flight, don't expect it to fly again. Likewise you can't do anything
    that contradicts canon.

5.  Finally, avoid rehashing Trek episodes and overusing Trek characters
    and ships. STF has its own ships. Rely on them. Keep appearances by
    Trek characters to cameos.

Now, here are a couple of questions to keep in mind. They should give
you a springboard for developing your concept a bit more. What's the
style/tone of the story you're trying to establish? That leads into...
What's the central conflict?

That's really the crux of the whole thing. What you have to do to have a
successful mission is:

1.  Set up a problem for the crew to overcome. Maybe they have to solve
    a mystery. Maybe they have to blow things up. Maybe they have to
    rescue someone. The point is, drama occurs only when there's a
    problem to overcome.

2.  The crew has to be invested in solving it. You can't just, put a
    Rubik’s Cube into space, and expect the crew to solve it. Something
    important has to be at stake, something that the characters on the
    ship will care about and something the PLAYERS will care about.

3.  There has to be some sort of "reward" for when the players finish
    the sim. I don't mean you should pass out candy at the end of the
    sim; I'm an English major, so the term I like to use is catharsis.
    Essentially, it means a satisfactory end to the story -- maybe not a
    happy one, but one that lets the characters (and players) know
    they've accomplished something.

Okay, you were out for a bike ride the other day and a great story idea
came to you. You've read the guidelines, have studied the ship's specs,
and made sure no one has done a story about wheeled aliens. What's next?

Homework - 102: Take a few minutes to come up with a story idea suitable
for a sim. Identify how you will involve the various departments. You
may need to just point out that a certain department is going to need a
side sim.

Tools of the Trade {.title}
------------------

### Section A - Styles of GMing {.title}

Type "styles of GMing" into a search engine and you will pull up an
amazingly lengthy and complex list of sites and articles. To list all
the styles is probably not possible, and would result in much discussion
over the names of said styles. Here are just a few examples.

#### Paper and Dice {.title}

Even in STF some GMs still fall back to what they know best. They plot
out their sims and use paper and dice to make decisions and guide the
players. There is nothing wrong with this so long as the GM remembers
that STF is a text based RPG and turns his plotting into well written
posts.

#### Trailblazing {.title}

In this style the GM has set up a series of clues which will one by one
lead the crew to the solution of the puzzle set. The GM is very clear
about his beginning, middle and end and the path the players should take
to get there. Sometimes a GM can get too fixated on their path and a sim
can stall completely. The crew completely stuck unable to figure out the
way forward and the GM is playing stubborn and not helping out. The GM
playing stubborn and not helping out. It is the responsibility of the GM
to ensure that this does not happen. Nudges may have to be given in the
right direction, extra hints and clues dropped. The GM is there to make
the game fun, and when you get completely stuck games cease to be fun.
Why else is there a roaring trade in the selling of cheats for computer
and console games.

#### Improvisation - also know as Free form {.title}

Free form GMing is not easy, although it certainly appears that way at
first. To free form successfully you have to be able to sense and
understand the ebbs and flows of a ship’s players, to see possibilities
in every post they write and possess a willingness to not have total
control.

In a nutshell if you free form GM, you begin a sim with a minimal plot.
You may or may not have an idea of how it's going to end. From that
point, you let the crew guide the story to its next phase.

#### Example and Discussion {.title}

Freeform is often sold as the best way to GM. But it is worth bearing in
mind that even some of the best GMs have found it very difficult.

This example comes from an actual sim run by Deanne Ashton. This example
clearly shows how nimble you have to be on your GM feet when dealing
with a smart and savvy crew. It is told in her own words.

**Example 1. GM Nimbleness**

"The mission was fairly straightforward. In the days of Bajor’s
Cardassian occupation, a man and a few Bajoran families fled in a
homebuilt spaceship to find a new home. These people were assumed lost
until the man contacts Bajor. A colony has been established on New Bajor
and they want to re-establish contact with their home world. A Vulcan
science ship in the area did a scan and discovered the gas giant around
which the colonial moon orbited was on the verge of collapse. The
colonists needed to be whisked from their home before it was destroyed.
A Bajoran Starfleet captain and his crew was given the relocation
assignment.

I knew from the beginning that the gas giant’s implosion would not
destroy New Bajor, because the prophets were creating a new wormhole in
its place. So I had the Kai of New Bajor refuse to leave the planet.
That was the main obstacle for the players, plus a rebellious band of
Cardassians who thought the colonists would make wonderful slaves.

I figured the crew would have a bit of fun with the shipboard side of
the sim, defeat the Cardassians and revel in the birth of a new
Celestial Temple. I was dead wrong. First off, the crew DID have a lot
of fun with the side sim to the point of ignoring what the Cardassians
were doing. As a result they ignored situations that put the ship in
grave danger. With the agreement of the CO and FComm, the ship ended up
being destroyed.

Again, I expected a fairly simple chain of events. Ship is destroyed,
crew finds another, saves New Bajor from the Cardassian rebels. What I
hadn't expected was a relatively new science officer to create a torpedo
that could actually rip a hole in the space/time continuum. He had
studied the ship's class and discovered a secret weapon that enabled him
to do this. Suddenly my sim got very complicated. Before we knew it, the
Cardassian ship (which had abducted all the Bajoran colonists) was
knocked into the Gamma Quadrant. Trust me, my original thoughts never
took us beyond the New Bajor system, let alone into another quadrant.
Additionally, the CO used this opportunity to switch ship classes from a
Trafalgar Warship to a Darwin science vessel. Now, the ship's
capabilities changed and the flavour of the sim with it.

Ultimately the sim concluded with the one thing I required, the birth of
the new wormhole. But getting there took more turns and a lot more time
than I ever imagined."

\

When starting out GMing, you probably do not want to leap straight into
freeform GMing. You may never choose this style. It is helpful to have
some idea where your plot is going, and what you might pass on the way.
Using dice may help you to keep your resolutions fair and interesting.
Laying out the order and type of clues you want to use will help you
stay focussed and keep the sim moving. But no GM can deny that
flexibility is also a key factor in a successful sim. Sometimes you just
have to go with the flow and follow the crew. Many GMs have found the
crew writing a better sim than they could ever have planned. Be prepared
to accept that the end you thought was coming is dead and gone. Sit down
and rewrite your ending, at the end of the day you want the crew to feel
good about what they have achieved. GMs aren't known for stomping in at
the end of the sim and announcing "You've got it all wrong." After all
GMs have a responsibility to keep up the appearance of all powerful, all
knowing and evil, therefore remember, you planned it that way all along.

Homework - 103A: Using the sim idea from 102 explain the series of clues
you might use to get the crew from the beginning to the end of the sim.
Point out places where you feel the crew might branch off from your
plan.

### Section B - Types of Interaction {.title}

Now that you have your idea, know more or less how your idea will play
out in a sim, it's time to review the methods you can use to present
your sim. GMs have a few methods of giving information to the players
and moving the sim along. They include Narrative posts, Interactive
posts, and what I call Elsewhere Posts.

#### Omniscient/Narrative {.title}

This is probably the most common GM style in STF, or anywhere. Simply
put, the GM knows all and shares the information with the players when
needed: usually in the form of Starfleet orders, a diagnostic outcome
and sensor information. Any characters the GM introduces to the story
can be used to impart information in this way.

These types of posts are generally used to accomplish two types of
tasks. The first task is to set a chain of events in motion.

**Example 2. Omniscient/Narrative Post**

Suddenly, the rundown freighter the USS Anyname had been escorting
exploded in a blinding flash of light, sending debris in all directions.

\

The second way the Narrative post can be used is to convey information
as a result of a player's action. Think of this as sensor readouts,
diagnostic results, or data from the ships library computer. These posts
come in handy when players try to gather more information in the sim.

**Example 3. Another Narrative Post**

A player posts: Lt. Anyone activated the sensors and began to scan the
debris. He desperately searched for any survivors from the explosion.

A GM's response could be: Sensors showed several life signs in the
largest section of debris.

\

As you can see this type of post is used to give players feedback on the
results of the actions they take.

#### Interactive Posts {.title}

This style is growing in popularity as more strong role-players find
their way to the GM ranks. As with Omniscient/Narrative, the GM knows
all, but his way of telling is different. Here, the GM creates
characters whose interaction with the crew reveals the needed
information.

The Interactive Post can often be the most fun to write. These posts are
usually in response to the sim characters the GM has created. A GM can
use sim characters to convey all types of information, ranging from
explaining why the villain of the sim is trying to destroy a planet, or
what background information the Intelligence Agent has on certain
smugglers.

Interactive posts are dependent on the GM creating his own characters.
Sometimes these will be very basic characters, the interaction will be
limited. Other times the sim may revolve around a GM character. These
type of characters need to be as real and as deep as the characters that
you play on other ships. Write a biography for them, no some basic stuff
about them, background, loves. This will enrich your story and get the
role-players to invest themselves in your characters.

**Example 4. Interactive Post**

A player may post: So did you notice anything unusual before you heard
the explosion, "Lt Anywho asked as he interviewed the survivor.

A GM's response would be: The injured man, an elderly Bajoran, nodded to
the question, "I heard weapons fire. Lots of it... I stuck my head out
of the cargo hold to see what I could and that's when I saw a Cardassian
running my direction!"

\

Here the GM has used a character he developed to convey information that
the crew can now dig deeper into. The one thing about the Interactive
post is that it is not an all-knowing character. The character should
only know and be able to convey information that the character would
reasonably have. So in this example, the Bajoran wouldn't know if the
Cardassians were from a group of radicals out to resurrect the Bajoran
occupation or someone like Garak who is on the good side. Now the player
can ask questions of this character and try to glean some more
information.

The more creative the characters are, the more fun the GM and the crew
will have role-playing it out.

**Example 5. Interactive Post - Fleshed out GM Character**

A message arrives for the captain. He takes it in his ready room. The
image on his viewer flickers, going from a blank screen to the
Federation logo and finally to the face of a grey-haired human man
bearing admiralty pips.

"Captain Example, Admiral Magee here. Sorry to shorten your shore leave,
but we need your help. We've lost contact with our terra-formers on Maya
Nine. Intelligence has alerted us to increased activity within the
Neutral Zone. As you know Maya Nine is not far from the Neutral Zone. We
fear the worse."

\

The first thing you should notice is the admiral has a name. This
creates a sense of familiarity that makes it easier to interact with
this character. Additionally, the admiral doesn't even mention the
supporting data he'll eventually send to the ship. His conversation
stops in such a way that he's inviting interaction from the captain.
More than likely, the captain's response would involve asking questions
to establish what his ship is getting into. Then the GM would provide
the data he's prepared.

#### Elsewhere Posts {.title}

This type of post should really be used sparingly. Often times I have
seen it used in moderation in the start and end of a sim. Basically,
this is a post where one or more of the GMs sim characters are
interacting with each other, or with themselves.

**Example 6. Elsewhere Post**

The Cardassian Commander shook his head as he saw the latest sensor
readings. The Starfleet vessel had found survivors. This was not good.
He slowly swivelled in his chair and turned to the helmsman. "Set an
intercept course," he ordered, "Maximum warp."

\

As you can see this GM post takes place in an area where there cannot
possibly be any of the role-players. Therefore, no players can respond
or play off this post, since none of their characters would be aware of
this. The benefit of using this post is to create suspense or a deeper
understanding for the players of what this sim is about. In the example,
it now tells the player someone else is out there and could possibly
come after the Starfleet crew. It creates anticipation, suspense, or can
be used to close up a thread, or even a sim. Use this sparingly only
because the sim is meant to get role-players involved. Just using
Elsewhere posts basically means you are playing your sim to yourself.
That is no fun for anyone!

So how do you decide which style to use? There's no clear-cut way. If
you're a strong role-player you may find the Interactive style of posts
more enjoyable than the Narrative. If you're more of a storyteller, then
the reverse may be true.

A strong GM has mastered all these types of posts and is able to pull
them together in perfect harmony to tell his sim and entertain the
players. When starting out you should try to use a combination of these
type of posts. It's probably wise to avoid the elsewhere style for now.
Take great care when developing characters to interact with the crew,
keep a note of any key points so they don't trip you up.

Homework - 103B: Using the sim idea you came up with in the last lesson,
write out the sim’s first post using the Narrative style.

Now write a post introducing a GM character for your sim idea to the
crew, using the Interactive style. Leave spaces for replies... do not
play the other character.

### Section C - Mission Types {.title}

Another way GMs can change the way they present a story is through the
use of different mission types. Until you have reached full Gamemaster
status in STF the only mission type you are allowed to use is the normal
mission. But there is no reason you shouldn't be aware of possibilities
in the future, when you do decide to move onto something different, be
sure to check with the GMD first about rules and such.

#### Normal Mission {.title}

This is a mission in which a single Gamemaster, who is NOT the CO of the
ship, serves on a single ship for a single mission. Once qualified a
Gamemaster may serve on multiple ships in different, unrelated missions
simultaneously. Check OGRE for current rules and regulations.

Then we have the Special Circumstances missions...

#### Multi-ship Missions {.title}

This is a mission in which one or more Gamemasters run a mission that
takes place simultaneously over multiple ships. This may require some
help from the Internet Department in setting up shared topics and such.
Again check OGRE for current rules and regulations.

#### CO/GM Mission {.title}

In this mission the CO of the ship also serves as the GM of the ship.
This can be quite difficult and requires the CO to be both a strong Role
player and experienced GM. OGRE will list current rules and regulations
concerning this type of mission.

#### Multi-Gamemaster Mission {.title}

This is when two or more Gamemasters serve on the same ship at the same
time. Again there are regulations and rules in OGRE about this type of
mission. But there are also some other points to bear in mind. This can
be a fun way to GM but really only works well if the two GMs get along
and work as a team. It is not designed to allow two GMs to sim on a ship
because they don’t have the time to GM one ship alone. Planning is
essential, and good communication at all times is vital.

There is one other type of mission type that you may see but will never
GM and that is the Self-RPG mission. On a ship that is Self-RPG there is
no Gamemaster, the crew all have equal control over the storyline.

Homework - 103C: Imagine you are running a multi-Gamemaster mission,
list ten things that could go wrong, then choose five and explain how
you might try to six them.

### Section D - Resources Available {.title}

STF has many resources available to you. Here are the ones that have not
been mentioned already in the course.

Gamemaster Department - This is your home department, there are a few
resources to be found here. You can also ask questions and will receive
advice from other GMs. First up the FAQ page or frequently asked
questions. Check here first to see if it’s already been asked.

The Reference Manual is a home grown encyclopedia for STF, it has
entries on planets, people etc. GMs are allowed to write entries for
this Manual, but you'll need to check the GM Dept for the latest
submission requirements. This is a useful place to find information for
a sim.

GM wanted lists will be the place to look for a ship, here you can see
which ships might be looking for a GM.

Mission Records form the new GM Archive. The GM Dept building up a
record of all sims and there are two good reasons for this. One, it
helps our GMs keep track of where they have GMed and how many sims they
have run. Two, it provides a useful database for GMs planning sims.
Eventually the archive will be the place to go and see if the ship you
are about to GM has been doing back to back battle sims. Or check that
they haven’t done a sim very similar to the one you’re planning.

The Administrative Menu - When you are given GM access to the WeBB
suddenly a new button will appear on the ship MOTD. This is the Admin
button. Before you go anywhere near this button it’s a good idea to find
out what happens on the other side. The best place to find all this out
is The Administrative Menu Course - look in the Academy.

A CO may grant a GM access to the ship's MOTD and/or access to add
GM-controlled characters at his discretion. (OGRE 1.7) If you have been
granted this privilege use it. Keep the crew updated on what's
happening. You can also use it to foreshadow events and provide other
minutiae, such as names, places, what-have-you. The ship's CO provides
this place for you as a courtesy. Don't abuse it. Be sure to update your
section as often as necessary. Don't make your section so long it makes
up more than half the MOTD's contents. Also, don't change the way the
section is coded. If the CO has it set up as a paragraph with blue text,
don't make it a bulleted list in pink. If you're unfamiliar with HTML
code take extra precaution that you don't rip the MOTD to shreds by
accident. It's best to be at least somewhat familiar with the basic
codes before you go about changing anything. If in doubt ask the CO for
help, if he has slaved over a cool MOTD, he would rather help you than
have you wreck his masterpiece.

The Player's Handbook - In the academy you can find a link to The
Player's Handbook. You need to be familiar with this document.

Personnel Dept - The Personnel Dept is the place to go to find out about
the ships in STF. Their ship profile page contains lots of information
and is a good starting point. You could also ask the Personnel staff for
information that they may have regarding ships. This is all good
research and a great starting point but don't forget to actually go read
possible ships and see if you like the feel of it. Chat with the Command
staff, find out what they expect of the GM and see if it matches with
your ideas. A good match now will make for a much easier sim be it a
training one or later on when you’ve got some experience.

Homework - 103D: Go to the academy and read the Admin menu course. Then
refresh your memory, by reading The Player's Handbook.

Planning a Sim {.title}
--------------

So why plan? Role-playing is a collaborative effort, and the crew is
going to have a lot of ideas that surprise you, which is going to pull
the sim in directions you not only didn't intend, but couldn't even
foresee. Think of your plan as an itinerary or a road map for a road
trip. You're going to want to have places to stay for the night. You're
going to want to have directions, so you don't get lost.

Now, once you've started on the road trip, you can -- and should -- be
ready to take road detours; to stop at places you didn't know about but
can see from the highway, like, say, a roadside diner. But when you
start off, you need to know where you're starting, where you're going,
and at least a general idea of how you plan on getting there.

This accomplishes a few things:

1.  It helps you evaluate where you are. This way, you can track your
    progress, and see what parts of the crew need more attention than
    others -- or perhaps some nudging to keep them from holding back the
    rest of the crew.

2.  It tides you over while you're at a loss for ideas. If you have a
    bad day, or just can't come up with anything, instead of dreading
    posting, and possibly skipping it, you have a plan to fall back on
    for inspiration.

3.  It keeps you sane. Having a plan helps keep you pointed in the right
    general direction. Having a weak plan you might be able to still
    entertain the crew, but it probably won't make you feel any less
    stressed.

4.  It lets you identify weak spots before you start. If you map out a
    rough outline in advance, you can see things like -- oh, the science
    department has nothing to do the entire mission. This way, you can
    come up with something for science to do before they get bored, not
    afterward.

You might try to divide things up into acts, sometimes three, sometimes
four, sometimes five. What this does is it gives you a few milestones
along the way. That way, you can reassess where you are at each act
break. If there are crew members or staff sections that are running
behind the rest around the time of an act break, you should give them a
push in the right direction. It gives you points where you can clearly
figure out how closely you are to the plan, and take some time to
re-evaluate the plan. Remember, there's anywhere from 12-20 crew members
on the ship; there's only one of you. The only tool in your box you have
to deal with that -- other than brute force -- is the ability to plan
ahead. (Crews do NOT enjoy the brute force approach.) You want to be at
least two steps ahead of the crew.

And most importantly, it gives you a sense of accomplishment somewhere
in the middle of the sim, a little bit of good feeling that will
hopefully be able to tide you over for a while.

In the Academy sims tend to last about three months on regular ships
most average five to six months, that doesn't mean you should let your
sim meander along for years. Presenting a journey too long and arduous
can make the players bored and/or frustrated long before they reach the
end. Those obstacles mentioned earlier, the ones you throw in the path
of your crew to keep things interesting: Make sure they're surmountable.
Learn from experienced GMs

"I remember a sim on a ship I commanded that resulted in the entire
senior staff being locked in the holodeck. The engineers who remained
free tried all kinds of things to break into the holodeck, but the GM
never let them succeed. Rather than keep trying, the players went AWOL
after two weeks of trying to solve the puzzle." (Unknown GM)

"Never try to outline every movement that will take place within a sim.
It is extremely important to allow the players to have some flexibility
within the sim; people will undoubtedly come up with ideas that the GM
would never think of, and it's important to keep that in mind as much as
possible. By the same token, though, it's equally important to not let
the players run away with the sim by grandstanding, et al. If one person
tries to run away with the sim on his own by doing something that's next
to impossible, then the GM needs to put the skids to that so that
solving a sim can be a team effort." (Unknown GM)

"It was my first official sim. I planned the whole thing out, from
beginning to end. I had every event worked out. I was very inflexible as
the sim progressed, not having experience with running a sim. The
result: The crew lost interest, and I had to narrate the end just to get
the darn thing over with! That was my bad GM experience."

"A new GM was supposed to take over [after my sim was finished]. When
that person AWOLed, I was put in the GM spot again. This time, I had
nothing planned - I hadn't expected to be GMing! As it turned out, this
was a good thing. My next sim was very spontaneous, and I had no trouble
compensating for crew interest and keeping all departments active. The
crew posted almost 100% daily by the end. It went great. Overall, I
would advise new GMs to be flexible. Don't hold to your perfect mental
image of what should happen - make sure the crew's having fun. Don't
plan everything, just have a couple of good ideas." (Unknown GM)

Homework - 104: Using your sim idea from 102 write a plan, for this plan
show where you might break it down into acts. Explain what key points
you would want to be achieved by the end of each act.

Common Problems when starting out {.title}
---------------------------------

Three GMMs got together and brainstormed a list of things that can go
wrong, the aim was to list things that go wrong for trainees, but they
quickly realised that no matter how much experience you have the same
things go wrong for all GMs. You just get better at figuring out how to
get out of difficulty.

### Pace {.title}

If you attend a creative writing course there is a lot of discussion
about pace. Short stories require a fast pace, Novels require different
levels of pace depending on the action or where you are in the book. The
same is true of a sim. Probably the most common problem trainees have is
that the sim just won't start. Trainees are on a deadline, they need to
get started and show what they can do so that they can shake off the
GMM. Sometimes the crew just won't play along, how do you fix this?

Then there is the other problem with pace, the sim seems to grind to a
halt, Houston we have no pace. Things were sailing along nicely and then
it all goes pear shaped. Causes of this can be as simple as people are
getting confused to key crew members going AWOL or LOA. Maybe the
command staff aren't providing good leadership in character. As GM it's
your job to keep the momentum going, but how?

### We see no mission {.title}

Sometimes you'll find a crew totally ignoring part of the mission, or
the crew won't participate in the sim. They may be more subtle, and head
off at a tangent on a side sim ignoring your sim. This is when you need
to sit back and evaluate your own posting, your sim idea. When this
course looked at planning a sim the following was said "Something
important has to be at stake, something that the characters on the ship
will care about and something the PLAYERS will care about." Can you fix
your sim? Maybe this is one of those times where being flexible and
following the players will pay off.

Then there are the days where you just want to beat your head against
the nearest brick wall. The crew won't pick up on a seemingly obvious
clue. Worse still, you find yourself up against the crew that seems to
wait for the GM for every tiny little detail, although some crews will
tell you it’s just as bad to be facing the GM who does the same. This is
where flexibility comes in, but also patience and a bit of ingenuity
help. Failing that a private email to one of the crew giving them a big
tip off is not frowned upon. Just don’t use this method too often; if
you find this happening then maybe you should check you aren’t the GM
that the crew were moaning about.

Crew is given a scenario that should be able milk for side plots but
they ignore or side plots are offered to "spare" departments and they
ignore them and continue moaning they have nothing to do. First rule,
just take another look at those options you've been offering are you
really giving them something reasonable to do. If you are and they still
continue to moan and obstruct then ask the Captain and First Officer to
have a word. Sometimes it just takes one person saying uh see the sick
people? Heal the sick people. Much better if this comes from the CO or
XO, it’s their job, and they may be able to help you figure out why your
brilliant ideas are being ignored.

### Why simplify, when you can overcomplicate? {.title}

At first you may think, why would this be a problem, if the crew want to
make life harder who am I to object. But when the moment comes in a sim,
you'll understand. Maybe the crew has decided that all GMs and therefore
all GM characters are evil and will not believe anything a GM character
tells them. You may have set up a very helpful character to act as a
voice for you in the sim. You have given this character excellent
references, down to being a relation to Mother Therese no less. Yet
still the crew treat every word that she says as suspicious. Is there a
solution to this? How can you make the crew believe you? You may need to
engineer some emergency where this character saves the crew, something
to gain their trust. Chances are you won’t be able to, and will have to
instead change tack and find a new way to communicate.

Then there is the time the crew decides to do something that will take
months but won't actually solve anything or move the plot forward. Maybe
they think it is helpful to the main plot but you know it isn't. This is
where a GM has to really take control, but in such a way that the crew
possibly don't realise they've been shunted down a different track. You
may need to up the stakes a little more, sometimes a little damage to
the ship, or a crew member can refocus a crew. Try to make the path they
are choosing so difficult someone realises that there has to be another
way. Final resort might be to email a member of the crew and tip them
off. Grovelling and begging for mercy, while a possibility, is not good
for the reputation of all GMs.

Overly complex responses to a situation that are unreasonable, but you
can't cut someone off mid-post... sometimes you might just have to do
that. But how you do it is the key to keeping everyone happy.

Player tries to be too smart and just sit in his office and use gravity
plating to solve all problems, even though gravity plating can't do that
and certainly not for an Ensign. Sometimes the best option with this
type of player is to talk to the CO and XO. Then if you still have a
problem you might have to start voiding posts, better still get more
imaginative and come up with something to shake them out of it.

This, leads nicely to some of the golden rules of GMing that you will
run up against...

### Voiding Posts {.title}

There are paragraphs of rules about this in OGRE, and you can void away
as long as you keep within those rules. However void too often, or void
without thinking and you may upset not only the player but the whole
crew. When voiding a post sometimes you have to weigh the pros and cons,
talk to the CO, try talking to the player. A good GM can often write
their way out of having to void a post, and fix the situation. Golden
rule, don’t void unless you absolutely have to and then make sure you
follow the rules to the letter.

### Thou shalt not kill {.title}

A player may have driven you mad beyond belief but you cannot kill his
character off, nor can you put him in a situation where there is no way
out. While this is a genuine possibility in the real world, in STF
respect for other people’s creations is given, thus we do not kill
another person’s character. Of course like all rules there are
exceptions to this, you can use death warnings, to find out more read up
on this in OGRE.

### Nor destroy the ship {.title}

So it's fun to blow up a ship, all GMs understand this, but to save on
the paperwork and so forth STF has rules about this. Many GMs delight in
hull breaches, failed shields, and sparking bridge consoles. Before you
lose matter/antimatter containment on that warp core, however, make sure
you have the blessing of both the captain and fleet commander. You'll
find the up to date rules in OGRE go see. It is probably in the exam.

### Star Trek Canon {.title}

In STF we have a set list of references that are considered canon. You
can find them in [Engineering:
References](textbook-engineering.html#eng-105 "References"). Honor Star
Trek canon and keep it holy. Always anchor your storyline with
plausibility. It's true that the universe in which we play is one of
science fiction, but that's no excuse to create things that don't mesh
with Trek physics. If you're not sure about the plausibility of a plot
point, research it. Here, ignorance is not bliss. By the same token, do
not rewrite that which has been written. You cannot rewrite Trek
history.

### Show respect for your fellow players {.title}

Creative roleplayers often have little side sims going in addition to
their participation in the main sim. If you see a way to incorporate
their story into yours, be sure to ask them before you take over. Often
a little word in the ear or email of another player can go a long way to
making your sim so much better. Don't underestimate the value of outside
input.

Homework - 105: For each of the following explain how you would try to
solve these problems:

1.  Slow pace

2.  Crew ignoring Sim

3.  Side Plots being ignored

Conclusion {.title}
----------

You're now armed with all the GM theory you're going to need to get
started as a GM, or improve upon your GMing skills. That doesn't mean
there isn't anymore to learn. Even the most experienced GM is still
learning. Like life, GMing always changes.

If you've paid attention to what was said in this course; if you thought
about the advice the other GMs provided; you're building on a solid
foundation. Enjoy the journey. Now go take the exam. The sooner you take
it, the sooner you'll be GMing. Good luck!

### Acknowledgements {.title}

As current Course Proctor I do not feel that I have written this new
version of the course on my own. Instead I have drawn from previous
versions, and therefore feel I share authorship with all the people who
helped on previous courses as well as those who gave me advice as I
wrote this version.

All listed here have helped in some way to write this course. Some made
a huge impact like Deanne, others supplied only a quote or two but just
as vital. This course will continue to change over the years but these
names should go forward with it.

Deanne Ashton, Chris Ashley, Steve Ashton, Mike Bourdaa, Stuart Coll,
Jeremy Friedman, Larry Garfield, Brian Moss, Owen Townes, Moe Younis,
Colin Wyers, Sarah Hemenway, Alex Verdusco and Amanda Noon.

Exam {.title}
----

Here is the exam for the course, you will need to score 75% to be
accepted onto the GM Training Program. Please read it through completely
before writing any answers down. The aim of this exam is to check you
have absorbed all the information, to emphasise important information
and to evaluate a candidate’s ability to communicate using the written
word.

Submission Instructions

1.  Write out your answers to the questions below.

2.  E-mail them to the [course
    proctor](mailto:gamemaster-tutor@star-fleet.com?subject=STF%20Gamemaster%20Exam)

3.  Be sure to include your full name at the top of the e-mail!

4.  Do not use "HTML-enriched" e-mail. It makes it harder to grade.

### Section A: Facts and Mechanics {.title}

1.  Cut and paste Homework 101: What would your contingency plan be? How
    important do you feel it is to be in contact with the CO and XO?*3
    points*

2.  Cut and paste Homework 105: For each of the following explain how
    you would try to solve these problems:*3 points*

    1.  Slow pace

    2.  Crew ignoring Sim

    3.  Side Plots being ignored

3.  Who is responsible for completing mission records for the GM
    Archive?*1 point*

4.  When should they be completed? *1 point*

5.  Why do we keep these records? *1 point*

6.  Show the chain of command for a GM in STF. *1 point*

7.  When can you kill a player’s character? *1 point*

8.  When is it permissible to completely destroy a ship? *1 point*

9.  Who can void posts and why? *1 point*

10. How would you void a post whilst minimising any disruption to the
    ship? *1 point*

11. Who can issue a death notice?*3 points*

    1.  What criteria need to be met?

    2.  Explain how you might try to avoid issuing a death notice.

12. How can you use multiple timelines to your advantage? *1 point*

13. Explain what is considered canon in STF. *3 points*

    1.  When should you use canon material?

    2.  When should you use non-canon material?

Total 22 marks for Section A

### Section B: Show Me the Money {.title}

1.  Cut and paste homework 102: Take a few minutes to come up with a
    story idea suitable for a sim. Identify how you will involve the
    various departments. You may need to just point out that a certain
    department is going to need a side sim. (Include at least one swing
    position in your planning.)

2.  Cut and paste homework 103A: Using the sim idea from 102 explain the
    series of clues you might use to get the crew from the beginning to
    the end of the sim. Point out places where you feel the crew might
    branch off from your plan.

3.  Cut and paste homework 103B: Using the sim idea you came up with in
    the last lesson, write out the sim’s first post using the Narrative
    style.

4.  Cut and paste homework 104: Using your sim idea from 102 write a
    plan, for this plan show where you might break it down into acts.
    Explain what key points you would want to be achieved by the end of
    each act.

5.  Where did you get the inspiration for your story idea?

6.  Why will your story idea make a good sim?

7.  Suppose you are a GM on the USS Master and there is a player named
    Sally Cheatum. Sally continually disrupts your sim by constantly
    contradicting you. Sally usually does this with an OOC note stating
    that your recent post regarding the warp engine nearly breaching
    could not possibly happen because she is a theoretical physicist and
    there is no way a warp engine could ever do that! Brainstorm
    possible ways you might address this issue.

8.  A GM has to be able to invent new worlds, new characters and new
    technology. Show that you can do this by describing one of each.
    Each answer should be at least two paragraphs. At least one should
    be related to your sim idea.

    -   A New World

    -   A New Character

    -   A New Technology

9.  Looking over the ship profiles, write an email to the Captain of the
    ship you think your sim would most suit and explain why. Sell your
    sim to the Captain. Pssst…don’t actually email it, put it here.

10. Sometimes a GM is called on to help out a ship. Whatever the reason,
    this means that sometimes you find yourself having to come up with a
    sim idea on the spot. Pick one of the following ships and come up
    with a basic sim outline.

    -   Starbase 202

    -   USS Lexington

    -   USS Ogawa

    -   USS Genesis

    -   USS Rogue

N.B. There are *8 marks* floating for good spelling and good English.

Section B is 10 pass or fail marks

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](textbook-engineer Engineering 
  ing.html)                [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](index.html)          Medical
   [Next](textbook-medical 
  .html)                   
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
