---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Science
...

Science

[Prev](textbook-medical.html) 

STF Academy Textbook

 [Next](textbook-security.html)

* * * * *

Science {.title}
-------

### Mark Wilson {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 3

5 May 2012

Remove course proctor name from exam body.

Revision 2

16 February 2009

Changed course proctor to Peter Hinton-Smith

Revision 1

19 September 2005

Added to the Library

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Introduction](textbook-science.html#sci-intro)

[Chemistry](textbook-science.html#sci-101)

[Atoms](textbook-science.html#idp140478690951120)

[Bonding](textbook-science.html#idp140478690960560)

[Law of Conservation](textbook-science.html#idp140478690963024)

[Biology](textbook-science.html#sci-102)

[Organic Molecules](textbook-science.html#idp140478690965760)

[Carbohydrates](textbook-science.html#idp140478690967168)

[Lipids](textbook-science.html#idp140478690969312)

[Proteins](textbook-science.html#idp140478690970816)

[Nucleic Acids](textbook-science.html#idp140478690972528)

[Cells](textbook-science.html#idp140478690974224)

[Cell Organelles](textbook-science.html#idp140478690975760)

[Transport in the Cell](textbook-science.html#idp140478690994240)

[Living Things](textbook-science.html#idp140478690996320)

[Physics](textbook-science.html#sci-103)

[Newton's Laws](textbook-science.html#idp140478691003264)

[Gravity](textbook-science.html#idp140478691007984)

[Movement of Objects](textbook-science.html#idp140478691009552)

[Relativity](textbook-science.html#idp140478691012016)

[Astronomy](textbook-science.html#sci-104)

[Heavenly Bodies](textbook-science.html#idp140478691016768)

[Galaxies](textbook-science.html#idp140478691020192)

[Stellar Phemonena](textbook-science.html#idp140478691023280)

[Role Playing](textbook-science.html#sci-105)

[Exam](textbook-science.html#sci-exam)

[Fill-in-the-Blank](textbook-science.html#idp140478691040080)

[Multiple Choice](textbook-science.html#idp140478691048144)

[Essay Questions](textbook-science.html#idp140478691084560)

Introduction {.title}
------------

Welcome to the STF Academy Science course. The goal of the course is to
give you a quick insight to the science field. The topics covered in
this course are Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Astronomy. Also covered
is the roleplaying aspect of a Star-Fleet science officer.

Chemistry {.title}
---------

### Atoms {.title}

The world we see is only a fraction of what really exists in the
universe. What our eyes fail to pick up is the existence of very small
things, the building blocks of everything in the universe -- atoms.

Atoms are the smallest part of an element that still retain the
uniqueness of that element. They are made of three basic things --
protons, neutrons, and electrons. These three subatomic particles are
made of still smaller things called quarks.

Both protons and neutrons are located in the nucleus, or center, of the
atom. Protons carry a positive charge, while neutrons carry none at all.
Electrons are not found in the nucleus; they orbit it, ready to bond
with electrons from other atoms. Electrons carry a negative charge. The
amount of protons in a stable atom, or a pre-reaction atom, is equal to
the amount of electrons. Electrons are arranged in layers, called
shells, on the outside of an atom. Think of several concentric circles,
and each electron as a point on one of the circles.

Sometimes, an atom is called an element. An element is a specific kind
of atom, arranged in a specific way. Hydrogen is an element. It has one
proton, one electron, and no neutrons. Gold is also an element. It has
79 protons and electrons, and 118 neutrons. The difference in the amount
of protons, electrons, and neutrons is what makes each element unique.

All known elements are listed on a very useful device known as the
Periodic Table of the Elements. On this table, elements are listed
according to atomic number (how many protons they have), their atomic
weight (the weight of the matter at the nucleus of an atom), and what
types of elements they are (alkali metals, transition metals, alkali
earth metals, other metals, nonmetals, noble gases, lanthanides, and
actinides). New elements are constantly being added to the table, mostly
in the form of artificially-discovered isotopes that exist for a few
seconds, if that.

To find out how many neutrons an atom has, simply subtract the atomic
number from the atomic weight.

Speaking of isotopes, an isotope is a different form of an element. If
an element has one proton and one electron, it is an atom of hydrogen -
no other element has one proton and one electron. If a neutron is added,
the element no longer becomes hydrogen, but deuterium. Since the element
has one proton and one electron, though, effectively giving some of the
qualities of hydrogen, it is an isotope of hydrogen.

When two or more different kinds of atoms join together, the result is a
molecule. A molecule is the building block of the compound. Some common
molecules are those of water (two atoms of hydrogen, one of oxygen),
carbon dioxide (one carbon atom, two oxygen atoms), and salt (one atom
of sodium, one atom of chlorine).

Two or more molecules put together is called a compound. Some everyday
compounds are water (H~2~0), calcium carbonate (CaCO~3~), and sugar
(C~6~H~12~O~6~).

### Bonding {.title}

When atoms bond to form compounds, the whole atom is not involved.
Instead, it is the electrons on the very outside shell that form bonds
with electrons from the outer shells of other atoms. There are three
different kinds of bonds -- ionic, where the two electrons bond with no
sharing of electrical charge, non-polar covalent (the electrons share
the charge), and polar covalent (the electrons share, but the larger one
receives more of the charge for a longer amount of time).

An atom that has a positive or negative charge is said to be an "ion."
Normally, atoms have no charge, as the amount of protons and electrons
are equal and they cancel each other out. When an atom gives up or
accepts more electrons, it becomes either positive or negative. The
amount of positive or negative charge an atom has is called its valence.

### Law of Conservation {.title}

A very important rule when dealing with chemistry is the rule of
conservation of atoms. It stipulates that in a chemical reaction, atoms
are neither created nor destroyed. All of the atoms remain in existence,
they may merely be free atoms now, or in combination with other atoms.
The main point is that chemical reactions do not create or destroy
atoms. Nuclear reactions, however, are a different case.

Biology {.title}
-------

### Organic Molecules {.title}

The lives of all living things would cease to exist if not for four very
important kinds of molecules, called organic molecules or bio-molecules.

### Carbohydrates {.title}

Carbohydrates are the first, and least important, kind of bio-molecule.
The base compound of a carbohydrate is the monosaccharide. It is
important to remember that when dealing with any kind of bio-molecule
that breaking an atomic bond releases energy, and creating an atomic
bond uses energy.

When many saccharides combine, they form a polysaccharide. This can be a
chain of thousands of carbon atoms that takes hours for the body to
break. Carbohydrates are the things an organism digests first.

### Lipids {.title}

Lipids are the next-highest kind of bio-molecule. They store large
amounts of energy due to their double carbon bonds and look like a
branched ladder. Lipids are used primarily as stored energy, as it is
easier and more cost-effective to use carbohydrates first.

### Proteins {.title}

There is perhaps, no more important bio-molecule than the protein. Not
only does it effectively repair the body and facilitate transport
through cells, it is responsible for breaking things down and building
them up. Proteins at their most important come in the form of enzymes
that cause chemical reactions to happen faster or slower. It is enzymes
(proteins) that are responsible for food digestion. Without enzymes, it
would take 1,000 years to successfully digest your lunch.

### Nucleic Acids {.title}

These bio-molecules form the very backbone of our existence -- DNA and
RNA. Nucleic acids in DNA come in the form of four kinds of chemical
bases, called nucleotides (adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine), that
pair in the following ways: A-T or C-G. The different combinations of
these bases are endless when there are thousands of them on a single
strand of DNA. RNA is much the same, except that it has the base uracil
instead of thymine. It bonds with adenine.

### Cells {.title}

Cells are "the building block of life," the smallest part of a living
thing that can still be considered "alive." In the average human adult,
there are an estimated 6 trillion cells of varying shapes and functions.
It is in cells that energy production takes place and where wastes are
disposed of.

### Cell Organelles {.title}

"Organelles" is the term applied to the sub-cellular structures inside
the cell that perform the cell's duties. Here is a list of organelles,
with a brief description of each:

 Ribosomes 
:   These small, spherical organelles produce proteins.

 Nucleus 
:   The nucleus lies roughly at the center of the cell, and is the
    storage facility for the DNA. It is referred to as the "control
    center" of the cell.

 Endoplasmic Reticulum 
:   The "highway" of the cell, where monosaccharides are transported
    around the cell.

 Golgi Bodies, Golgi Complex 
:   These terms refer to the organelle that packages nutrients for
    storage or for shipping to another cell. It is the UPS of the cell.

 Mitochondria 
:   The powerhouse, processing molecules to make energy (the process of
    making energy is a very complex one).

 Cell membrane 
:   Also called a plasma membrane, this is the layer that protects the
    cell, holds in the cytoplasm, and allows transport (next lesson).
    Proteins are embedded in the cell membrane, and serve as doormen,
    allowing only certain molecules in, and helping molecules that need
    assistance.

 Cytoplasm 
:   The Jell-O like fluid in which resides the organelles. The cytoplasm
    stretches from the membrane to the nucleus.

 Lysosome 
:   Its root word sounds like "Lysol," the cleanser, and that's exactly
    what this organelle does -- it removes waste products from the cell.

 Vacuole 
:   A vacuole is just a large storage container. In plant cells,
    vacuoles are huge and filled with water.

 Cell wall 
:   This structure is found only in plants and adds an extra layer of
    rigidity to the cell. The bark of trees is nothing more than
    trillions of cell walls.

 Chloroplast 
:   This structure is also only found in plant cells. The chloroplast is
    responsible for photosynthesis, changing sunlight to chlorophyll. It
    is believed that the chloroplast and mitochondria evolved along
    somewhat the same lines.

### Transport in the Cell {.title}

In order for the cell to utilize nutrients, they must first be moved
into the cell. Small molecules (monosaccharides) can move across the
semi-permeable cell membrane in the process of diffusion. When one of
the proteins in the membrane helps a molecule across the membrane, it is
called facilitated diffusion. Water moves across the membrane in the
process of osmosis. Both these kinds of transport are passive transport
systems, meaning that no energy is required to move the molecules across
the membrane, since the molecules are moving from a high to low
concentration (like going downhill -- no energy needed). Active
transport refers to any kind of movement across the cell that requires
energy. Energy is needed because the concentration of molecules goes
from low to high (like going uphill -- oops, energy is needed).

### Living Things {.title}

It is generally accepted that things are living if:

1.  They have the ability to grow and develop.

2.  They have the ability to reproduce.

3.  They have the ability to use energy.

4.  They have cells.

5.  They have the ability to adapt.

In order for things to be considered alive, they must meet all of the
above characteristics. It is also understood, though, that as new
lifeforms are encountered, they may not meet all of the above criteria.
In this case, it is up to the science officer to determine whether or
not something is living.

Physics {.title}
-------

The only laws in the universe that are absolute are the laws of physics.
The Earth scientist Sir Isaac Newton devised three Laws of Motion that
have become the basis for the understanding of physics.

### Newton's Laws {.title}

1.  An object at rest tends to stay at rest; an object in motion tends
    to stay in motion unless acted upon by another force.

2.  For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.

3.  An object experiences motion because energy is transferred from one
    object to another.

The force described in law 1 is inertia. Inertia is an object's tendency
to stay at rest or in motion. The larger the object, the greater the
inertia, both ways. If you are pushing a heavy box up a hill, more
energy is required to put the box in motion. Once in motion, the box is
easy to push or pull. If it slides down the hill, it is hard to stop
because it is already in motion (although gravity plays a part in its
motion down the hill).

The "other force" described in law 1 is friction. Friction is what
causes objects to eventually slow down and stop. It occurs when two
surfaces contact each other, and does happen with air (when it happens
with air it is known as "drag"). An object only continues to move in a
vacuum, such as in space, where there is no air and no friction.

### Gravity {.title}

Gravity is a universal phenomenon, felt even in space. On a planet,
gravity pulls all objects toward the center of the planet, effectively
keeping them on the ground. It is not limited to this definition,
however. Gravity is a force exerted by objects upon other objects that
causes two objects to attract to one another.

### Movement of Objects {.title}

All objects have something called "momentum," the product of mass
multiplied by velocity. Mass is the overall size of an object - its
weight and size measurements (a bowling ball has more mass than a tennis
ball). Velocity is an object's speed.

The Earth philosopher Aristotle first posed the idea that heavier
objects fall faster than lighter ones. The renaissance scientist
Leonardo da Vinci thought that objects fell in proportion to the
distance they have fallen, but it wasn't until the 17th century that
astronomer Galileo Gaileli got it right - small and heavy objects fall
at the same speed. The proportion is how long objects have been in the
air. When objects have been in the air for a long time, only then do
heavier objects' momentum begin to act and they land before lighter
objects.

### Relativity {.title}

In the 1930s, Albert Einstein proposed that space was curved and because
of this, light also curved. This was his general theory of relativity.
His special theory, known widely because of its application to warp
power, is that energy = matter times the speed of light squared
(E=MC^2^). It means that as one gets closer to the speed of light,
energy consumption increases along with the momentum of the matter going
at the speed of light.

An offshoot of Einstein's special theory is that, as objects approach
the speed of light, time begins to slow down for them because they are
going so incredibly fast. As a result, an object at near-light speed can
be in motion for a year while it seems that dozens of years have passed
to an object at "normal" speed. This is why impulse power is limited to
0.25c or at the most, 0.5c and why starships do not travel for extended
time at impulse speed. Traveling any faster at sublight, or for longer
amounts of time, will result in an increased time dilation effect.

Astronomy {.title}
---------

Astronomy is the study of space, and this is the duty of most science
officers. It is important to understand the basics of astronomy -
planets, stars, black holes, since these are the things you will
encounter.

### Heavenly Bodies {.title}

Planets, stars, and other solid stellar phenomena are lumped together
into this category. Planets are dense balls of matter that have gravity,
a core, and can sometimes support life. They do not produce their own
power. Planets range in size from the small Pluto to the giant Jupiter,
which could have been a star.

A star is a huge ball of gases that uses the process of fusion (covered
in the Engineering course) to create energy. A star's immense gravity
sometimes pulls planets, asteroids, and comets into its orbit, creating
a solar system. There are two classifications of stars - by size and by
luminance. In ascending order, the sizes of stars are dwarf, main
sequence, giant, and supergiant. Their luminance scale is, in ascending
order, red, yellow, blue, and white. Stars adopt the Bell curve - a
small amount are red dwarfs, a small amount are white supergiants, but
most are yellow and blue medium-sized stars. These medium-class stars
are referred to as main sequence stars.

At the end of a large star's life, it uses up the remainder of its fuel
in a split-second and explodes with the power of and luminance of
thousands of Earth suns. This explosion, which can and does destroy
solar systems, is called a supernova. Smaller stars do not go nova; they
swell up to a larger size and cool down or turn into planet-sized stars
called white or black dwarfs.

### Galaxies {.title}

Galaxies are large collections of solar systems that are millions of
light-years in diameter. Galaxies are classified into three types:
spiral (the Milky Way) elliptical (the Andromeda galaxy), and irregular
(the Magellanic cloud). Galaxies that are neither spiral nor elliptical
fit into the irregular category. It is estimated that there are 100
billion galaxies in our universe.

At the edge of the Milky Way galaxy is a large energy barrier called the
Galactic Barrier. In 2265, Captain Kirk and the USS Enterprise crossed
this barrier, causing a mutation with one of the crew members. It is
advised that ships do not cross this barrier.

Equally dangerous is the Great Barrier, an energy barrier surrounding
the center of the galaxy. Captain Kirk crossed this barrier in 2285 with
the Enterprise-A. What he find inside was a malevolent, but powerful,
creature that attempted to commandeer the ship by posing as God. The
being was destroyed, but it is unknown if others like him exist.
Crossing the Great Barrier is also inadvisable.

### Stellar Phemonena {.title}

Pulsars are the remains of stars that have not gone nova. They shine
with the luminance of millions of suns and are the most distant objects
known to man.

Black holes are also the remains of stars that have not gone nova, but
rather done the opposite. The star has condensed into a super-dense ball
of matter a few miles wide. So dense is it, though, that its gravity is
immense and not even light can escape. Its existence is known, though,
due to massive amounts of gamma radiation that are emitted from the
black hole. Upon entering a black hole, matter is pulled apart atom by
atom. No one knows what lies beyond a black hole. Scientists speculate
that it is probably a gateway to another universe or dimension.

A wormhole is a passage through space, first conceived of by Earth
scientist Dr. Steven Hawking. Most wormholes are unstable, their
endpoints shifting constantly through space. The only stable worm hole
is in the Alpha Quadrant, several hundred kilometers from Bajor. It was
created by that planet's Prophets and leads to the Gamma Quadrant.

Role Playing {.title}
------------

The life of a science officer is not easy. Most often, they are stuck
with duties like OPS (yes, Data was a science officer) until something
comes along that requires analysis. In space, nothing conforms to any
set definition - a lifeform may be discovered that does not adhere to
the definition of life, but it is most obviously living.

It is important that you have a general understanding of all the terms
and concepts presented in this class, as your commanding officer will
want to know exactly what it is that your ship has encountered. If
you're not sure, don't pretend you know, as this will only lead to
problems later. Speculate! Say, "My hypothesis is . . ." or "It's too
early to gain a definitive answer, but I believe that . . ."

Launch probes to gather interstellar data. Work with the medical
department to gather information about horrible infections. Use the
laboratories on board to analyze different kinds of goo. Delegate -
always delegate! A science officer, in a crisis situation, cannot handle
everything at once, which is why there are junior officers to assist
you.

When it comes to RPGing, don't be afraid to make conclusions. Don't wait
for the GM to tell you what it is you've found, say what it is. At the
worst, the GM will issue a nullified post order. It's never a crime to
be too creative, but being under-creative is what keeps people at the
sci-5 position.

Don't rely on the concepts of this class as your only source of
scientific information. This is just a basic-level class; it's a lot
like a liberal arts science class - we cover a lot of subject matter,
but depth is sacrificed for quantity. Entire books have been written
about cell structure and function and protein production. Stephen
Hawking covered the contents of our astronomy class in the first few
pages of A Brief History of Time. The stuff here is introductory
material. Look at some science books, pay attention in science class.
The GM probably knows a thing or two about real science, and if you know
more, you can outfox him and come up with solutions the GM didn't think
of.

The CSO is usually on an Away Team, so he should be ready for anything
at all times.

Exam {.title}
----

Submission Instructions

1.  Write out your answers to the questions below.

2.  E-mail them to the [course
    proctor](mailto:science-tutor@star-fleet.com?STF%20Science%20Exam)

3.  *Be sure to include your full name at the top of the e-mail!*

4.  Do *not* send the original question, just the answers.

5.  Do *not* send your answers as an attachment. Send them in the body
    of the e-mail.

6.  Do *not* use "HTML-enriched" e-mail. It makes it harder to grade.

7.  All answers must be original. Do not simply copy and paste from the
    lessons.

### Fill-in-the-Blank {.title}

1.  The smallest unit of an element that still has the characteristics
    of that element is a(n) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

2.  All livings things are made of
    \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

3.  Stars that are yellow or blue and medium-sized are called
    \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ stars.

4.  \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ are the first source of
    energy for living organisms.

5.  \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ developed the theory that
    space was curved.

6.  Stars produce their power through the process of
    \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

7.  DNA and RNA are made of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

8.  When two atoms share energy, the bond is called a(n)
    \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ bond.

9.  Two or more different atoms produce a
    \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

10. The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ states that, in a
    chemical reaction, atoms are neither created nor destroyed.

11. Germanium has an atomic weight of 72.59 and an atomic number of 32.
    How many protons, neutrons, and electrons are there (round to the
    nearest whole number)?

### Multiple Choice {.title}

1.  The scientist who developed the Laws of Physics was

    1.  Albert Einstein.

    2.  Sir Isaac Newton.

    3.  Werner Heisenberg.

2.  Galileo believed that objects fall in relation to

    1.  their size.

    2.  the distance they have fallen.

    3.  the time they have been in the air.

3.  The barrier that marks the entrance to the center of the Galaxy is

    1.  The Galactic Barrier.

    2.  The Great Barrier.

    3.  The Central Barrier.

4.  Newton's 1st Law states that "objects at rest tend to stay at rest."
    What force is he talking about?

    1.  gravity.

    2.  friction.

    3.  inertia.

5.  The nucleic acid base adenine can only pair with the nucleic acid
    base

    1.  cytosine.

    2.  uracil.

    3.  thymine.

6.  An atom that has a charge is said to be a(n)

    1.  ion.

    2.  molecule.

    3.  bi-polar atom.

7.  An example of an irregular galaxy is

    1.  the Milky Way.

    2.  the Magellanic Cloud.

    3.  Andromeda.

8.  The cell organelle responsible for producing proteins is the

    1.  ribosome.

    2.  lysosome.

    3.  endoplasmic reticulum.

9.  The element Helium has 2 protons. How many electrons does it have?

    1.  8.

    2.  4.

    3.  2.

10. A bond where atoms do not share energy is called a(n)

    1.  polar covalent bond.

    2.  ionic bond.

    3.  non-polar covalent bond.

11. In facilitated diffusion, molecules go from what kind of
    concentration to what kind of concentration?

    1.  low to high.

    2.  medium to low.

    3.  high to low.

### Essay Questions {.title}

These questions deal with situations that you may have to face (or
others have faced in the past). Submit your answer so that you
completely answer the question and solve the problem. Some questions do
not have a definitive answer; you must explain your reasoning as best
you can.

1.  The starship USS Compaq has entered an area of space where there are
    no visible stellar phenomena. Sensors are picking up high levels of
    gamma radiation and radio waves that do not seem to come from any
    visible source. What is the phenomenon and what should be your
    recommendation?

2.  The USS Gateway has received reports that the blue dwarf star Gamma
    Epsilon has increased in size over the course of two years. The
    captain suspects a supernova and has ordered the evacuation of the
    only inhabited planet, Gamma Epsilon IX. Is the captain correct? If
    he is not, what is the correct phenomenon and what actions should be
    taken?

3.  The crew of the USS Hewlett-Packard has encountered a microscopic
    object that has been causing nothing but problems for the Klingon
    ship IKC EpsonCanon. What began as one object has turned into
    forty-seven similar objects in only one hour. The objects are
    draining power from the warp core at a rate that will quickly
    disable the Klingon vessel. The objects are not known lifeforms;
    they look very different from any known microscopic entities. Are
    they alive? If so, why? And what should be done with them?

E-mail your answers to Mark Wilson -
[science-tutor@star-fleet.com](mailto:science-tutor@star-fleet.com?STF%20Science%20Exam).

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](textbook-medical. Medical 
  html)                    [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](index.html)          Security
   [Next](textbook-securit 
  y.html)                  
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
