---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Department Head Command Course
...

Department Head Command Course

[Prev](textbook-command-xo.html) 

STF Academy Textbook

 [Next](textbook-counseling.html)

* * * * *

Department Head Command Course {.title}
------------------------------

### Symon Silvester {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 4

5 May 2012

Remove course proctor name from exam body.

Revision 3

1 August 2009

Changed course proctor to Samuel Bibb

Revision 2

16 February 2009

Changed course proctor to Robin Bird

Revision 1

3 August 2006

Added to the Library

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Introduction](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-intro)

[What is a Department Head (DH)?](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-101)

[What is a Department Head's job In Character and Out Of
Character?](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-102)

[In Character](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707422256)

[Out of Character](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707427040)

[Giving orders](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-103)

[Delegation of Tasks](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-104)

[Keeping your JO's busy](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-105)

[Common filler tasks for each
department](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-106)

[General Tasks](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707450608)

[Medical/Counseling](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707453040)

[Security](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707456080)

[Science](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707459024)

[Engineering](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707461984)

[Swing positions](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-107)

[Admin](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-108)

[Conclusion](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-conclusion)

[Exam](textbook-command-dh.html#dh-exam)

[Multiple Choice Questions](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707481504)

[Essay Questions](textbook-command-dh.html#idp140478707495888)

Introduction {.title}
------------

Welcome to the Star-fleet Command Course for Department Heads. Whether
as a prospective Department Head, a first time DH or even an experienced
one looking to see if you know everything, this course should have
something new for you.

This course aims to break down the basics and to provide you with the
essential information that anyone needs to be both a successful DH and
an asset to your ship and crew. All areas will be covered from in
character work to out of character work.

What is a Department Head (DH)? {.title}
-------------------------------

The role of a DH is the true backbone of any ship/base in STF. A
Department Head is in charge of a particular section and any junior
officers therein.

For example, the role of Chief Engineer places that person in charge of
the ship/base's engineering department and, by default, gives them the
responsibility for maintaining the working order of the ship.

A DH is a supervisor that organises their department most effectively
and efficiently to do the job that is required daily, as well as
interpreting any special requests or orders from the Commanding
Officers.

Think of yourself as a bridge. At one end, you ensure that your junior
officers have plenty of routine tasks to do to keep them busy in keeping
with the normal routine of your department. At the other end, you are
responsible for facilitating and implementing the orders of your
superiors. They will tell you what they want done. It is your job to
interpret that and to pass it onto your own staff.

What is a Department Head's job In Character and Out Of Character? {.title}
------------------------------------------------------------------

In STF we are here to role-play and we all role-play best when we have
something to work with. This is both the basic requirement of having fun
and to being a good Department Head.

Think of the best ships you have served on or the ships where you have
the most fun. These will always be the ships where you have more to do,
whether that is working with other role-players or dealing with tasks.

It is possible to break down the job of a good Department Head into two
main areas, In Character (IC) work and Out of Character (OOC) work.

### In Character {.title}

-   It is the job of a good Department Head to ensure that your
    department is run efficiently and your officers have plenty of work
    to do. You will be required to give your staff tasks. You should
    feel free to issue orders within the structure of your department
    and the main sim. For example, if you are the Chief Medical Officer,
    feel free to tell your staff to organize physical examinations.

-   Your job is to give professional advice and feedback to the XO and
    CO, when given the opportunity to do so. This does not mean speaking
    out of turn in front of other officers or behaving in an
    inappropriate manner. Feel free to request a word in private if the
    situation requires. Remember you must support the chain of command
    as it is the principle all military vessels operate upon.

-   Your job is to accept the orders from your superior officers (XO and
    CO) and to pass them onto your department for action. This may
    require holding a briefing or redeploying people from other tasks.
    Also don't forget the handy dandy multiple timeline facility. Keep
    your staff busy, just as you would if this was real life.

-   Set an example. You have to set an in character example for your
    staff and show them what is acceptable behaviour in your eyes. If
    you act in an unprofessional way then your junior officers may do
    the same things too. You are setting the discipline and tone for
    your department.

### Out of Character {.title}

-   Just as in character it is your responsibility to set an example for
    your junior officers. So make them feel at home, send them a welcome
    email, get to know them and make sure they have plenty of work to
    do. Don't argue with people on the ship and always conduct
    discussions via email.

-   Support your command staff and always be positive and friendly.

-   On the best ships it is not only the GM that will provide work for
    people. The best DH's will also create side sims for members of
    their department who are not occupied. Take responsibility for
    creating work, but never let it take over the main sim. For example,
    as Chief of Security, you might well decide to run security alert
    drills to keep your teams occupied

Giving orders {.title}
-------------

Giving orders is always a tricky area. How do you give orders to a
junior officer? What if they are someone who is actually higher in club
rank than you are or has more experience as a role-player?

The answer is simple don't think of it as an out of character action
instead place yourself in the mind of your character. They have earned
the right to be in charge and be in that position. That experience gives
you the right to be confident and to know your orders will be obeyed.

Think of the following Four C's

 Concise 
:   don't gibber or be confusing. Say what you need to say.

 Confident 
:   it is a military environment so it is fair to act as if your orders
    should be obeyed.

 Calm 
:   don't scream at another person's character unless it is actually
    required. It can be counterproductive

 Clear 
:   be clear as to what your orders are and what the task is you're
    delegating.

Finally, be respectful and polite. Try not to scream and rant in
character unless it is required character development.

Delegation of Tasks {.title}
-------------------

In STF delegation of tasks is essential to be a great DH. You have to be
able to pass tasks onto your department to keep your officers busy. Your
job is to make sure they have something to do as their jobs!

How do you delegate?

If you have orders from your CO or XO, a job to do in the sim or you are
creating work for your staff, always break the job down into tasks.
Assign one person to each task. If possible assign people to work
together in teams to promote in character interaction.

Once you have your task in mind, assign it to the appropriate person. Be
mindful of leaving someone who is inexperienced as a role-player without
any support. Try to assign them in a team with a more experienced
role-player to interact with. Always try to help players improve and
settle, where appropriate. In the same way try to find out what their
characters specialties are. It may be that one of your junior officers
happens to be an expert in just that task, so find out more about their
in character backgrounds. For example if one of your junior officers is
a communications specialist and the task is about the communications
systems then assign them! You can always assign someone to work with
them too.

Delegating a task to a junior officer is down to giving the person the
right orders.

Keeping your JO's busy {.title}
----------------------

There is a common misconception that the responsibility for providing
something for everyone one to do is down to the GM alone. This is
incorrect. The responsibility is also down to those in the chain of
command. With the position there is also additional responsibility to
those below you.

It will be down to the Captain and Xo to notice your department has
little to do and try to find a task to pass down to you. Failing that,
it is your responsibility to create something to keep your junior
officers occupied.

In simple terms it is rare that a main sim will involve the whole crew
at any one time. A sim could last four months, so there will be periods
of time where people are not occupied. A good Department Head will excel
by finding sim related tasks for their department to become involved in,
or to create a side sim for involvement.

Look for tasks in your orders that you can issue to your junior
officers. Invent a training task or issue general house keeping issues.
There is always the ever popular individual chat to a junior officer in
your office, or holding a team briefing.

There are lots of different options available. Keep your JO's busy!
Don't assume someone else will!!!

Common filler tasks for each department {.title}
---------------------------------------

This section is there to help you find a task as a Department Head of a
particular department. There are department specific tasks as well as
general tasks that any department can undertake. Below are some basic
tasks.

### General Tasks {.title}

-   Team Briefings - get your department together for a chat

-   Individual assessment - talk to your JO's on a one to one basis

### Medical/Counseling {.title}

-   Get your JO's to perform crew physical/mental exams

-   Assign medical/counseling research projects

-   Side sim some form of interesting medical emergency or medical
    condition

### Security {.title}

-   Run security alert drills

-   Run hologram simulation drills

-   Perform ship weapon systems tests

### Science {.title}

-   Perform sensor scans

-   Assign scientific research projects

-   Side sim some data that needs to be analyzed

### Engineering {.title}

-   Assign repair duties.

-   Side sim an engineering problem that needs a solution

-   Perform ship systems tests

Swing positions {.title}
---------------

Some positions are not the standard ship DH positions. Some are outside
the normal roster, such as Chief of Operations, or Chief Tactical
Officer.

Often in these positions there are no rostered player character junior
officers for the Department Head to manage, but this is not to say your
duty to the ship is over. You still should keep yourself busy and help
out in the sim where required. For example, you can create Nameless
Ensign Junior Officers to give tasks to IC. Remember to support your
command staff and prove that you can perform in the position. Be an
asset to the ship and the crew.

Admin {.title}
-----

Welcome to the admin side of the position. As with any promotion or
higher rank there is always an increase in your own responsibility. As
you move higher up the chain of command so the responsibilities increase
too.

Some CO's may delegate additional responsibilities to you, but they will
make these aware to you when you are taking on the position. These may
be ship specific so it is best to discuss these with the CO.

However, as a DH on any ship you should be taking responsibility to
welcome and greet your new junior officers. These may have been
appointed to the ship by the CO, they might be recent academy graduates,
or just an experienced role-player looking for some fun. Whatever the
case always send them an email welcoming them to the ship and saying who
you are.

It helps to create a good atmosphere and gives that person a link to the
ship and the crew. This is especially important if the person is new or
just starting out. Remember, we were all there once!!!

What is a welcome email? Simple, it is an email that you send welcoming
someone in your department to the ship. Be friendly, give them some
details, and maybe even provide a sim update or a potential starting
pointer. Help the person out.

On many ships the CO and XO send out their own welcome emails, but there
is no excuse for you not to add your own personal touch. Remember,
people like to deal with people and we are all here to have fun!

Conclusion {.title}
----------

With Thanks to:- Jen "Sloth" Herr, Sarah "Kat" Hemenway, Jack "Dippy"
Dipper, Brian "Bear" Olinski.

Exam {.title}
----

Submission Instructions

1.  Write out your answers to the questions below.

2.  E-mail them to the [course
    proctor](mailto:command-dh-tutor@star-fleet.com?subject=STF%20Command%20DH%20Exam)

3.  *Be sure to include your full name at the top of the e-mail!*

4.  Send the original question followed by your answers.

5.  Do *not* send your answers as an attachment.

6.  Do *not* use "HTML-enriched" e-mail. It makes it harder to grade.

7.  All answers must be original. Do not simply copy and paste from the
    lessons.

### Multiple Choice Questions {.title}

1\. Whose responsibility is it to find things for your department to do?

1.  The GMs

2.  The COs

3.  The JOs

4.  The DHs

2\. What should you do for a newbie junior officer?

1.  report them to the CO

2.  set an in character and out of character example

3.  leave them alone, they will just have to cope.

4.  Set them a task on their own.

3\. Which of the following is classed as a swing position?

1.  Chief Science Officer

2.  Counselor

3.  Chief Tactical Officer

4.  Chief Medical Officer

4\. Which of the following should you NOT do?

1.  Take control of another department's junior officers without
    permission

2.  Ask to talk to the Captain in private

3.  Put one of your junior officers in charge of the department while
    you are on an Away team.

4.  Run a department drill.

### Essay Questions {.title}

1\. Write an example of a welcoming email to a new arrival in your
department.

2\. Imagine you are a department head. Choose your own department from
the main four, Science, Security, Engineering and Medical.

You have three Junior officers under you. Ensign Alpha is a very
experienced role-player who was on the ship before you took over. Ensign
Bravo is a role-player with excellent writing ability but little
experience. Ensign Charlie is a new arrival with no experience at all
and is struggling to fit in.

Your Captain has given the following briefing at meeting of all the
department heads.

"There is a prison break on the penal colony we are in orbit around. The
inmates have fought the guards and there have been reported casualties.
Reports are sketchy, the comms system has been disrupted. The Prison has
a shield around it to prevent beam outs. It can only be taken down from
the Prison control room, but we can't make contact.

Engineering, I need you to work with the transporters. I need a way past
the shield to beam people down to help. Bring that shield down. I also
need comms back.

Medical. As I said we have reports of casualties. Early reports
suggested at least three guards had been hurt seriously and we have had
reports of a fire before the comms failed. I need you prepared to deal
with the emergencies, in case the prison sickbay can't cope.

Security. Get your men together equip them for emergency rescue. I want
teams ready for rapid deployment, but I also need you to work out an
action plan for the rescue. I don't want more casualties, so all weapons
are to be set to stun.

Science. I need the layouts of the prison. You'll have to dig the files
out. Additionally, we have no sensor readings at all. We have to know
where the inmates are and the trouble spots to deploy security
correctly.

That's all, everyone dismissed and get your people working on it."

With that briefing in mind, pick a department and write an In Character
post as DH to your team of three ensigns explaining the situation and
assigning the tasks to them.

At the end of your post, please provide an explanation as to why you
selected what person for what task and, if you assigned anyone to work
together, why you did so.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](textbook-command- Executive Officer
  xo.html)                 Command Course 
  [Up](index.html)         [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](textbook-counsel  Counseling
  ing.html)                
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
