---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Galactic Barrier
...

Galactic Barrier

[Prev](location-etopos.html) 

Locations

 [Next](location-khitomer.html)

* * * * *

Galactic Barrier {.title}
----------------

### Philip Stonness {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

23 May 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](location-galactic_barrier.html#idp140478694559600)

[Overview](location-galactic_barrier.html#idp140478694565424)

[History](location-galactic_barrier.html#idp140478694569344)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Phenomenon 
:   Energy Field

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   "Where No Man Has Gone Before" (TOS) and others

Overview {.title}
--------

The Galactic Barrier is a massive energy field surrounding the Milky Way
Galaxy. It consists of several forms of energy, including mass
quantities of psionic energy. This type of energy is not common.

When a starship enters this field, the excess energy causes power
disruption and overloads throughout the ship. Prolonged exposure to the
Galactic Barrier may ultimately lead to a ship's destruction.

To add to this problem, psionic energy disrupts and overloads neurons in
a typical human brain in much the same manner as damage to the ship.
While within the Galactic Barrier, a ship's crew will get headaches and
extreme fatigue if in the barrier for only a matter of moments, and can
cause insanity and even death if prolonged exposure to the barrier
occurs.

Usually, the more telepathic a humanoid the more symptoms are
intensified. The only exception to this rule are Vulcans, who apparently
are not affected by the barrier at all.

This field can easily be compared the Great Barrier, a similar energy
field surrounding the center of the Milky Way Galaxy.

History {.title}
-------

There are only four instances known to the federation in which a vessel
has entered the Galactic Barrier.

Once by the S.S. Valiant on a mission of exploration. Their original
purpose was to come to the edge of the galaxy, then head back. When they
arrived at the galaxy's rim, they encountered an energy field known now
as the Galactic Barrier. Their flight recorder was later discovered by
the U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701.

There were three entries made by the original Enterprise.

Once after discovering the S.S. Valiant's lost flight recorder in the
year 2267. The Enterprise found that the Valiant crew had destroyed
themselves in order to prevent takeover of the Federation by some of
it's crew. The Enterprise, not knowing what was going on, entered the
Barrier in search of answers. A friend of Captain Kirk's who had latent
psionic abilities was apparently affected by the barrier's energy, and
started to display abnormal telepathic abilities. This individual soon
started speaking of ruling all of the Federation(just as the Valiant
crew had). Eventually, Kirk had to kill his friend.

In 2268, another entry and exit was accomplished when alien life-forms
named the 'Kelvan', who's home planet was located in a neighboring
galaxy, hijacked the Enterprise. The Kelvans' mission was to find a
suitable new home for their race, however their vessel was destroyed by
the Galactic Barrier. Tricking the Enterprise crew into landing on the
planet at which they now had crashed on, using their advanced technology
they captured the Enterprise. They transformed the majority of the crew
into dodecahedrons, leaving only essential personnel aboard including
Chief Engineer Montgomery Scott, Chief Surgeon Leanard McCoy, Chief
Science Officer Spock, and Captain James Kirk. They exited the galaxy en
route to the Kelvans' homeworld, but soon was thwarted by the remaining
Star-Fleet crew. The crew returned to their humanoid shape, and the
Enterprise returned within it's own galaxy.

Finally, once more in 2269 did the original Enterprise enter the
Barrier. At the current time, their was a meducian ambassador visiting
the ship with two assistants: Dr. Jones, and an individual named
Maverick. Maverick was driven insane by jealousy, and took control of
the Enterprise' engines, which he had helped design, and piloted the
massive starship across the Barrier. Eventually, Chief Science Officer
Spock had to perform a mind-meld with the meducian ambassador,
considering the ambassador was the only one who knew how to pilot the
ship safely out into and out of the Galactic Barrier again. After the
mind-meld Kollos, using Spock's body, successfully piloted the
Enterprise back into the Milky Way Galaxy.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](location-etopos.h Etopos 
  tml)                     [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](locations.html)      Khitomer
   [Next](location-khitome 
  r.html)                  
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
