---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Etopos
...

Etopos

[Prev](location-chairos_iv.html) 

Locations

 [Next](location-galactic_barrier.html)

* * * * *

Etopos {.title}
------

### Amanda Noon {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

7 December 2001

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](location-etopos.html#idp140478694537856)

[Overview](location-etopos.html#idp140478694547872)

[History](location-etopos.html#idp140478694549888)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Environment 
:   Class M

 Primary Species 
:   Etopian

 Natural Satelites 
:   Melpha and Phalan

 Artificial Satelites 
:   Etopian Space Station and Shipyard

 Affiliation 
:   United Federation of Planets

 Entry Type 
:   Custom

Overview {.title}
--------

Etopos is a planet orbiting the larger sun in a binary system. The
larger sun has ten planets in orbit, the smaller sun, four. The small
sun orbits around the larger sun. Etopos standard year is equivalent to
roughly two Earth years. The moons have both been terraformed and
support small populations of miners, industrialists and ship builders.
Etopos is described as a garden paradise, there is no heavy industry, no
poverty and life is very similar to that found on Earth of the 24th
Century. The planet is a fertile garden world, with about two thirds of
the planet being sea. The Etopians are expert farmers and worked out
around four centuries ago how to control their weather. From these
experiments developed the industry the planet is famous for,
terraforming technology.

History {.title}
-------

Etopos began to reach out to space over four hundred Terran years ago.
Starting first by creating domed colonies on their moons. The moons were
found to be rich in minerals so the Etopians moved all heavy industry to
these two large natural satellites. Then added a space station and
finally a ship dockyard. Here the first deep space exploration ships and
then the first colony ships were built and sent out to Trexite. Travel
at this time was done in impulse ships, warp had yet to be discovered.
It was the development of a successful colony that helped to push along
the development of Warp Drive. The Trexite colony was where various
terraforming techniques were first used to change the planet from Class
K to Class M.

In the years it took to force these changes the colonists lived in domed
communities. It was during the first Warp Drive tests that the planet
Mustine was found orbiting the smaller sun in the binary system. The
Etopians later sent out colony ships to the planet Mustine a Class M
planet. Ten Earth years after the colony on Mustine was set up Etopos
joined the Federation. The Etopians shared their knowledge of
terraforming techniques and in return gained knowledge about replicators
and transporters The Trexite colony is approximately 200 Earth years
old, the Mustine colony 150 Earth years old. Trexite is a thriving
colony that gained independence from Etopos one hundred Earth years ago.
Mustine is much smaller, and is struggling. It has been independent from
Etopos for fifty Earth years.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](location-chairos_ Chairos IV 
  iv.html)                 [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](locations.html)      Galactic Barrier
   [Next](location-galacti 
  c_barrier.html)          
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
