---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Mars
...

Mars

[Prev](location-khitomer.html) 

Locations

 [Next](location-obaine.html)

* * * * *

Mars {.title}
----

### *Sol IV* {.subtitle}

### Philip Stonness {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

21 August 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](location-mars.html#idp140478694603760)

[Overview](location-mars.html#idp140478694615136)

[History](location-mars.html#idp140478694619712)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Environment 
:   Class K

 Primary Species 
:   Human

 Natural Satelites 
:   Phobos and Deimos

 Artificial Satelites 
:   Utopia Plantitia Shipyards

 Affiliation 
:   United Federation of Planets

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   Various

Overview {.title}
--------

Named after the Greek god of war, this is the fourth planet orbiting Sol
in sector 001. It is generally red in colour, due to the concentration
of iron present in Mars' atmosphere and the outer layer of soil. This
planet has many canyons believed to have once carried water throughout
the planet.

The 'red planet' lies at an average of 227,936,640 Kilometers from Sol.
It's volume, or size, and gravity are both approximately 1/10th that of
Earth(Sol III). A Martian year is about double that of Earth's, at about
one revolution per 687 terran days. Martian days are about 25 hours
each.

Mars has many colonies that house thousands of people. One such colony
is Martian Colony 3.

Because of the extremely thin air within Mars' atmosphere and low
gravity, sub-orbital flight is made easy in comparison with other
inhabited planets in general.

In orbit and on the surface is the Utopia Plantitia Ship Yards. This
installation launched many famous ships, such as the U.S.S. Enterprise
NCC-1701-D and U.S.S. Voyager.

Adding to the defense of Sector 001 is the 'Mars Defense perimeter', a
series of small unmanned craft designed to protect the inner planets of
the Sol system. This perimeter was easily thwarted however by the Borg
in 2367 after a cube destroyed more then 30 ships at Wolf 359.

History {.title}
-------

It was first settled by humans in the year 2103, 40 years after warp
drive was invented. The first settlements were designed after the
"Millennium Gate", a large self-sufficient commercial center built on
Earth in the late 20th century. Martian rights were dictated by the
Fundamental Declaration of the Martian Colonies. However, this planet
was hardly free of crime at this point in history. At that time there
was a serial killer that murdered many women. This madman, 200 years
later, was found out to be an alien entity feeding off of fear from it's
victims. This discovery was made by the U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701.

Early in Mars' history was the Ares IV spacecraft, it was of the Mars
modules in service by NASA. It went missing early in the 21st century.
No human had known what happened to the capsule or how it disappeared,
but this mystery was soon unraveled by the U.S.S. Voyager while in the
Delta Quadrant. Voyager encountered a massive moving sub-space 'cloud'
or 'storm' that had been moving through space for eons. Upon closer
investigation, it was found that the Ares IV has been entrapped by the
storm. The Voyager crew soon found that the astronaut that had piloted
Ares IV had survived being inside the storm for several days after his
entrapment.

Physical exploration of this minute planet began in the late 20th
century, where NASA and the Soviet Union sent many unmanned probes to
gather valuable data on Mars. On of the most famous is the Pathfinder
project(a massive project launched by NASA), which brought back many
photographs of the planet's surface and other valuable data. In 1996,
NASA released information pertaining to a meteorite that was thought to
be from Mars. This rock housed fossils of micro organisms, which was
thought to be evidence of life on Mars.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](location-khitomer Khitomer 
  .html)                   [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](locations.html)      Obaine Nebula
   [Next](location-obaine. 
  html)                    
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
