---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Risa
...

Risa

[Prev](location-qonos.html) 

Locations

 [Next](location-sisa_minor.html)

* * * * *

Risa {.title}
----

### Jason Lee {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

25 March 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](location-risa.html#idp140478694740176)

[Overview](location-risa.html#idp140478694751552)

[History](location-risa.html#idp140478694754352)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Environment 
:   Class M

 Primary Species 
:   Risan

 Natural Satelites 
:   1

 Artificial Satelites 
:   None

 Affiliation 
:   United Federation of Planets

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   "Captain's Holiday" (TNG) and others

Overview {.title}
--------

Risa is a luxurious tropical resort paradise with many beaches which
attracts millions of guests each year. In addition, Risa is renowned for
its uninhibited sexuality another reason why millions of guests come to
Risa. Risian sexuality is very much part of their culture. Identified by
a decorative emblem on their foreheads between the eyes, Risians often
initiate or respond to the desire for sexual relations through the use
of a small statuette called a Horga'hn, the Risian symbol of sexuality.
Display of a Horga'hn announces that the owner wishes to participate in
jamaharon, a Risian sexual rite.

Risa orbits a multiple stars and is in the same sector as Starbase 12.
Risa benefits from the most elaborate weather control system in the
Federation despite the fact that it is a rain-soaked and geologically
unstable jungle in its natural state. In addition, Risa seems to be
hosts to many conferences in the Federation. It lies at least 6 hours in
a Runabout from station Deep Space 9. It is interesting to note that the
Risian computer has information on all the guests on Risa, and can tell
one if someone has made arrangements for arrival.

History {.title}
-------

Risa has been the focal point for the fate of superweapon Tox Uthat
stolen from the future in 2366. Picard and a woman named Vash who
proclaimed to be an assistant to an archeologist who spent many years in
searching for the Tox Uthat. Vash apparently already discovered the Tox
Uthat and hid it from a Ferengi named Sovak. Vash used Sovak in order to
gain passage to Risa since she didn't have any funds to take her to
Risa. Picard figured out that Vash had already discovered the Tox Uthat
and contacted the Enterprise to do a level 14 transport on his order.
When the Vorgons, a group of aliens claiming to be a security team,
tried to take it from Picard; Picard ordered the transport which
destroyed the Tox Uthat. It is presumed that the Vorgons have returned
to the past in order to stop Picard.

Risa has been part of the abortive Ktairain Expansion plot using an
addictive mental game in 2368. Lastly, it played to a series of protests
by the reactionary New Essentialists movement in 2373. The New
Essentialists used ecological terrorist activities as part of their
protests.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](location-qonos.ht Qo'noS 
  ml)                      [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](locations.html)      Sisa Minor
   [Next](location-sisa_mi 
  nor.html)                
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
