---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Flarn Regime
...

Flarn Regime

[Prev](powers.html) 

Powers

 [Next](power-kton.html)

* * * * *

Flarn Regime {.title}
------------

### Larry Garfield {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

12 April 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](power-flarn.html#idp140478694787776)

[Overview](power-flarn.html#idp140478694799136)

[History](power-flarn.html#idp140478694803504)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Government 
:   Military Oligarchy

 Capital 
:   Flick

 Age 
:   30 years

 Technological Level 
:   Warp Capable

 Dominant Species 
:   Flarn

 Diplomatic Status 
:   Hostile

 Entry Type 
:   Custom

Overview {.title}
--------

The Flarn Regime is barely considered a power. It consists of a single
planet, the Flarn homeworld of Flick, along with several small military
and mining garrison colonies. It is located in the Alpha Quadrant,
several light-years from the Federation colony of Pilton.

The Flarn are technologically inferior to the Federation in almost every
capacity, save military. The Flarn have devoted the vast majority of
their history to the art of war, usually against each other, and as a
result have developed highly advanced destructive machinery. As they are
new to space exploration, their warp technology is considerably behind
that of other major powers.

A Flarn Heavy Cruiser is about the size of a Constitution-class vessel,
but shaped more like a bumpy wedge. It has dense ablative armor,
reinforced adaptive shielding, plasma rockets, quantum torpedoes,
multi-phasic disrupters, and antimatter countermeasures. It is unusually
maneuverable for a ship its size. Its maximum speed is warp 3.1.

The most common Flarn vessel is the Flarn Streamer. Smaller and lighter
than a Heavy Cruiser, it still possesses considerable firepower for its
size. Plasma rockets, photon torpedoes, and multiple disruptor banks
provide offensive power, while adaptive shielding protects the vessel
itself. It has a maximum observed velocity of warp 2.4.

The Flarn currently lack transporter and replicator technology. All
Starfleet vessels are instructed to obey the Prime Directive religiously
in order to keep it that way.

History {.title}
-------

When the Flarn race was finally unified under a single military
leadership in 2343, they had only just developed space travel. Having no
further enemies at home, they quickly developed interstellar travel in
the hopes of finding new territory to conquer. With ships operating at
only slightly more than the speed of light, it took them a while to
establish any meaningful presence outside of their own system.

First contact with the Flarn came in 2370, when a pair of Flarn scout
ships attacked the Starfleet cruiser Debian. The Debian was easily able
to outrun the attacking vessels, but only after suffering heavy damage.
The Federation was mildly concerned about this new hostile race, but the
Flarn leadership was ecstatic at the thought of someone else to conquer.
After a series of brief skirmishes with a task force led by the
Nimitz-class USS Arleigh Burke and Trafalgar-class USS Lexington,
however, the Flarn realized that assaulting the Federation would prove
somewhat more difficult than they originally expected, and they decided
to further entrench themselves within their own small territory before
making an outright assault.

In 2373, the Federation decided to better protect itself against this
new aggressor. The nearest Federation colony was the outlying world of
Pilton, populated by strongly independent colonists, mostly human.
Starfleet decided to construct a new starbase in orbit to serve as a
first line of defense against the Flarn, as well as a base of
operations. The new Outpost 45 would complement the center of Fleet Two
operations, Starbase 93. Many on Pilton were not wild about the idea,
however, as they valued their independence from the Federation proper.

The Flarn learned of the growing tension between Pilton and the
Federation, and sought to exploit it, to sabotage the construction
effort. In 2374, they secretly contacted Pilton-based Yankovic Heavy
Industries and attempted to bribe them into helping sabotage the
Pilton-Federation relationship. Yankovic's executives agreed, and the
plan went forward, but was thwarted by Starfleet in 2375, just as
construction on Outpost 45 was completed. The USS Arleigh Burke was
destroyed in the process, and the vessel's surviving command staff and
crew were transferred to the station to take command. The Flarn have
been relatively quiet since the Piltonian Insurrection.

For more information on the Flarn, contact the author.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](powers.html)      Powers 
  [Up](powers.html)        [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](power-kton.html)  K'Ton
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
