---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: 'K''Ton'
...

K'Ton

[Prev](power-flarn.html) 

Powers

 [Next](misc.html)

* * * * *

K'Ton {.title}
-----

### Philip Stonness {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

21 March 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](power-kton.html#idp140478694815744)

[Overview](power-kton.html#idp140478694827104)

[History](power-kton.html#idp140478694829888)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Government 
:   Terrorist Regime

 Capital 
:   Unknown

 Age 
:   4 years

 Technological Level 
:   Warp Capable

 Dominant Species 
:   Romulan

 Diplomatic Status 
:   Hostile

 Entry Type 
:   Custom

Overview {.title}
--------

This is a Romulan terrorist group, formed several weeks after the
Romulan/Federation alliance was formed, they are opposed to this
alliance. This group works like the Maquis, they use stolen Romulan
vessels to destroy Federation outposts, warning them to end the
alliance. Most of their technolodgy is Romulan, but they have reported
having Dominion style transporters. Their main targets are outposts and
starbases along the Neutral Zone, except attacks from the K'ton have
also been reported around Betazed, Pacifica, Risa, Disharn VII, and in
one instance Mars Colony.

Their leader has been suspected to be a retired Romulan Admiral, G'rol,
except no proof of his implications have been found thus far. The
Romulan Government assures the Federation that everything in their power
is being done to stop these terrorists, except many Star-Fleet officials
think they are secretly aiding the K'ton in their fight. There have also
been romours of several K'ton infiltrators in Star-Fleet. One of these
spys have been confirmed, however the suposed Admiral T'grek transported
away from Earth before he could be apprehended on Stardate 01021.2

History {.title}
-------

Even though these terrorists have not been around for long, they have
created much disturbance. Shortly after the Dominion War, all diplomats
attending a peace conference between the Romulan Empire and the
Federation were killed in a bombing. Ever since that inncident, the
Federation have dispatched ships to seek out and capture all suspected
K'ton vessels. So far however, it is estimated only 12% of all their
resources in total have been confiscated. On Stardate 00122.3 Star-Fleet
intercepted a K'ton transmission from Risa to Pacifica. Using help from
Vulcan mathimaticians, Star-Fleet found the transmission was holding
information about a K'ton attack on Nimbus III. Two monthes after, the
U.S.S. Trinitron was ordered to avert this attack and capture these
Romulan attackers.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](power-flarn.html) Flarn Regime 
                           [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](powers.html)         Miscellaneous
   [Next](misc.html)       
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
