---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Benzite
...

Benzite

[Prev](species-bandi.html) 

Species

 [Next](species-breen.html)

* * * * *

Benzite {.title}
-------

### Jason Lee {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

25 March 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-benzite.html#idp140478691563520)

[Overview](species-benzite.html#idp140478691574896)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   Benzar (Gamma Xertia III, Phedadon)

 Height (Average) 
:   5' 9"

 Weight (Average) 
:   150 lbs

 Lifespan 
:   Unknown

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   (TNG)

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Unlikely

Overview {.title}
--------

Benzites are a humanoid race whose members require a special breathing
apparatus for oxygen atmospheres. This apparatus is worn on their chest
with an extension reaching up to just in front of the mouth and nose
slit. The slit is wider than the mouth with four whisker-like
extensions, much like the Terran catfish. Benzites do not have facial
hair, and they have blue-gray skin. They have large, short-pointed ears
and in addition, they strongly resemble each other. Benzites are very
sincere eager people, however, their eagerness is sometimes perceived as
superiority. Benzites tend to be perfectionists, and as part of their
eager and perfectionist nature, Benzites will offer advice in improving
efficiency. This is one of the reasons that Benzites appear to be acting
superior.

Benzites are not members of the Federation, but carry treaty relations
and officer exchanges. Benzites can apply for Starfleet Academy, and
many Benzites do. Benzites have an extreme pursuit for knowledge and
they tend to excel in Science and Engineering. It is also interesting to
note that Benzite space service calls for an officer to withhold unusual
findings until an extensive analysis can be run and a resolution is
offered. Benzites tend to get depressed if they do something which they
perceive as a failure. By 2372 the Benzites had made such medical
advances that they were no longer required to use the respiration device
in Class-M atmospheres.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-bandi.htm Bandi 
  l)                       [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Breen
   [Next](species-breen.ht 
  ml)                      
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
