---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Trill
...

Trill

[Prev](species-tholian.html) 

Species

 [Next](locations.html)

* * * * *

Trill {.title}
-----

### Philip Stonness {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

25 March 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-trill.html#idp140478694489952)

[Overview](species-trill.html#idp140478694499920)

[History](species-trill.html#idp140478694504624)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   Trill

 Height (Average) 
:   5' 6"

 Weight (Average) 
:   157 lbs

 Lifespan 
:   115 years

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Common

Overview {.title}
--------

A unique "joined race" whose humanoid members have provided host bodies
for small soft-bodied entities in a symbiotic relationship. Trills have
spotted skin areas beside the vertical hairline that follow down the
Trill body.

The symbiont body is a foot-long purplish lump of cranial and
exoskeletal tissue, some are susceptible to damage by transporter beam.
In emergencies, a symbiont can survive in stasis for only a matter of
two hours maximum. In extreme cases, a human body can serve as a
temporary host for no more then a few days.

Since the symbiont integrates each new host's personality with its own
after joining, Trill relationships are often hard for single-unit
species to deal with and sometimes don't survive the change and thus a
relationship that existed with a previous host is discouraged for a
host. Trills are usually very responsible and moderate or reserved in
personality; the symbionts don't seek romance and try to adhere to a
"higher plane," feeling it a nuisance and a weakness of the young -
although the host body occasionally indulges. The symbiont does carry
memories of time shared with each of its hosts, except this does not
mean a joined Trill carries the responsibilites and obligations a
previous host did, and each new combination - aside from gender, height
and weight - carries a different blood type, metabolism, nervous system,
and brain wave pattern. The complex brain carries two cerebral nuclei -
one in each being, linked together - whose brain wave patterns can each
be scanned separately as well as together. The two are biologically
interdependent; at 93 hours after their joining, neither can survive
without the other. A Trill host's hands feel cold-blooded to the touch;
their more overtly developed senses include identifying a known
individual only by the audible rhythm of footsteps.

The humanoid host species' unruly children are not above throwing rocks
at windows, just like their Human and Bajoran counterparts, at least. To
other races, Trill may seem arrogant side. Only one Trill in ten is
chosen to be joined to the "thousands" of symbionts, but those not
joined still lead normal, productive lives. The brains of hosts produce
endorphins as in the human brain. Thousands of symbionts live on Trill.
Joined Trills are allergic to insect bites, since the biochemical
connections of the symbiont and host can't tolerate the toxins. They are
more resistant to a noxious paralyzing volcanic gas found on planet LS
VI than other humanoids such as Bajorans. Among outworlders, they have
been in contact with Klingons at least since 2289.

A Trill's lineal or family name follows the given name, as is done on
Earth, but a host drops his lineal name in favor of the symbiont's.
People at the Symbiosis Commission worry that the symbionts would be
bartered as commodities if the truth were known that half the population
could be hosts, rather than the 1-in-1,000 ratio officially quoted and
the reason behind the rigorous selection and training program. Social
role equality seems apparent among the population, at least in medicine,
with doctors and nurses of both genders.

History {.title}
-------

On the Enterprise NCC-1701-D it was first discovered by the Federation
that some Trills were joined. This happened when Odan was involved in an
attack while in a shuttle, and was severly inhured. Doctor Beverly
Crusher found the symbiont while examining Odan, and soon they had ask
assistence by the Trill government to save the Odan symbiont.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-tholian.h Tholian 
  tml)                     [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Locations
   [Next](locations.html)  
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
