---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Cytherian
...

Cytherian

[Prev](species-chameloid.html) 

Species

 [Next](species-dilkian.html)

* * * * *

Cytherian {.title}
---------

### Jason Lee {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

19 April 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-cytherian.html#idp140478691956672)

[Overview](species-cytherian.html#idp140478691968064)

[History](species-cytherian.html#idp140478691969296)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   A planet near the center of the Galaxy

 Height (Average) 
:   Unknown

 Weight (Average) 
:   Unknown

 Lifespan 
:   Unknown

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   "The Nth Degree" (TNG)

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Never

Overview {.title}
--------

The Cytherians are curious beings who are explorers. However, they are
not ordinary explorers. The Cytherians prefer to stay home and send out
probes of advanced technology. These highly advanced probes can
reprogram computers and even living beings. In addition, these probes
use a propulsion method unknown to Starfleet that does not create any
subspace distortions or field emissions. The purpose of these probes are
to give information in order to bring other races to them. In this way,
the Cytherians explore the galaxy by bringing the galaxy to them. The
Cytherian that appeared on the USS Enterprise only showed his head. It
appears that it was some type of holographic image or some type of
technology beyond the Federation's understanding. This particular
Cytherian looked human like, and was very elderly. By the looks of the
Cytherians, they appear to have a blue patch in the middle of their
foreheads as well as ridges similar to Klingon foreheads. The difference
between this particular Cytherian forehead and a Klingon's forehead was
that It was wider, flat, and curved in opposite direction from the
bottom to the top, which allowed a flat area where the blue patch would
be. This Cytherian also had a large flat nose; the ridges on the
forehead seems to start where the top of the nose becomes part of the
forehead. This Cytherian had white hair and seem to wear his hair with
thick strands of hair running down past his face. These strands of hair
only extended 1 to 2 inches past the face. Lastly, this Cytherian also
had a white beard.

History {.title}
-------

On Stardate 44704.2, the USS Enterprise-D went to investigate a problem
with the Argus Array, on the edge of Federation space. The USS
Enterprise-D found an alien probe near the array. When the Enterprise
sent out a shuttle, the probe attempted to reprogram the shuttle but
failed. However, the probe managed to reprogram Lt. Barclay instead. It
was discovered that the probe was unable to reprogram the Argus Array or
the shuttlecraft's computers, but it managed to reprogram Lt. Barclay.
The probe was able to increase Lt. Barclay's intelligence, creativity
and everything else in his brain. In order to save the Argus Array, Lt.
Barclay had to connect to the computer using a neural interface on
Holodeck 3. Apparently, the probe caused something to change Lt. Barclay
where his intelligence would increase bit by bit. So when Lt. Barclay
connected to the computer of the USS Enteprise-D, he became the
computer. Since his higher level brain functions were in the computer,
he was not able to return to his body and unable to disconnect from the
computer. When Lt. Barclay connected to the computer of the USS
Enterprise-D, he was able to use the graviton emissions from the USS
Enterprise's warp nacelles to create a large subspace distortion. This
subspace distortion allowed the USS Enterprise to travel to the
Cytherians for first contact. The Cytherians did not pose no threat and
only wanted an information exchange. Only one Cytherian appeared on the
Bridge of the USS Enterprise-D. He did not physically appeared, but only
the image of his head was shown. They seem to be peaceful and did not
mean any harm. They were able to return Lt. Barclay to normal, however
it seems Lt. Barclay has retained some of the intelligence and
confidence that he picked up from this experiance. Lt. Barclay, once he
was normal again, was able to explain to Captain Picard about the
Cytherians. The information exchanged from the Cytherians will take
decades for Federation sciencists to analyse. The USS Enterprise-D had
spent 10 days in the company of the Cytherians before returning to
Federation space.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-chameloid Chameloid 
  .html)                   [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Dilkian
   [Next](species-dilkian. 
  html)                    
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
