---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Ferengi
...

Ferengi

[Prev](species-etopian.html) 

Species

 [Next](species-flarn.html)

* * * * *

Ferengi {.title}
-------

### Mike Rouse-Deane {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

6 March 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692055152)

[Overview](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692066800)

[Society](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692071216)

[Females](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692075776)

[Government](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692078016)

[Grand Nagus](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692080304)

[History](species-ferengi.html#idp140478692081680)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   Ferenginar

 Height (Average) 
:   5' - 5' 4"

 Weight (Average) 
:   Unknown

 Lifespan 
:   Unknown

 Entry Type 
:   Custom

 Source 
:   "The Last Outpost" (TNG), "Emissary, The Nagus, Rules of
    Acquisition, Proft and Loss, The House of Quark, Family Business,
    Little Green Men, Bar Association, Business as Usual, Ferengi Love
    Songs, The Magnificent Ferengi, Profit and Lace, The Emperor's New
    Cloak" (DS9), "False Profits, Inside Man" (VOY)

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Never

Overview {.title}
--------

The Ferengi are an Alpha Quadrant humanoid space-faring species. The
Ferengi Alliance (name of the Ferengi government, overseen by a single
appointed Ferengi with the title "Grand Nagus") is not a member of the
Federation. The homeworld is called Ferenginar, an M-class planet with a
wet climate. Ferengis are slight for humanoid races, rarely passing 5
feet in stature. Ferengi have ascending ribs and an upper and lower
lung. Primary facial features are their ridged nose, razor-sharp fangs,
and highly sensitive ears, but their main deviation from ordinary
humanoid physiology is the four-lobed design of the brain, whose unusual
patterns prevent telepaths such as the Betazoids from reading their
mind. Dopterians, whose brains are structurally similar to those of the
Ferengi, are similarly unreadable by Betazoids.

The other uniquely Ferengi characteristic is the large ears that are
receptive to touch. Their homeworld of Ferenginar has a thin atmosphere,
and in time the Ferengi ears grew larger to better receive sound waves.
The lobes are receptive to touch, and fondling them, termed oo-mox, is
pleasurable to most males. The ears also have fine hairs on them, which
with age grows to be lengthy and even shaggy. Hearing is undoubtedly the
finest tuned sense of a Ferengi, and the ears unmistakably symbolize
their innate "Ferenginess". One who has the "lobes" for something is
marked out as gifted. Female lobes are smaller than normal male Ferengi.

Eating habits- Ferengis delight in worms and various insects, preferably
alive and squirming. The one caveat is, insects must come from
Ferenginar, or it isn't food at all. Their small and sharp teeth make
them efficient eaters. When young Ferengis need to sharpen dull teeth
they use latinum tooth-sharpeners or chew-sticks.

Interestingly, Ferengi males often find human females very attractive.
Ferengi consider pregnancy to be a rental, with the father being termed
the lessee. When a young Ferengi reaches adulthood and prepares to leave
home, he traditionally raises capital by auctioning his boyhood
treasures.

### Society {.title}

Up to the appointment of Grand Nagus Rom, their culture, which has
existed for thousands of years, was founded upon capitalism but taken to
such an extreme that every aspect of society, no matter how trivial, is
based on money and the pursuit of profit.

Other races see Ferengi as ruthlessly exploitive, but while Ferengi
exploit, embezzle, and double-cross people and often act without scruple
in business deals they are in fact behaving according to set rules. It
is assumed that Rom, a progressive in favour of humanising these
principles, would make sweeping changes. But until then Ferengi rules
and principles are enshrined in 285 rules together called The Rules of
Acquisition. These rules were written by the first Nagus, Grint, who
founded the Ferengi Alliance we know today.

The Ferengi have a strict code of honor. The Ferengi culture finds the
concept of organised labor to be abhorrent, since such things can
interfere with the exploitation of workers. A Ferengi labor contracts
never provides sick leave, vacations, or paid overtime for employees.
Ferengi consider the sanctity of a contract to be a cornerstone of their
civilization. Breaking a contract in unthinkable, and will generally
result in the offender having his Ferengi business license revoked and
all of his assets seized, and him becoming a pariah in Ferengi society.

Ferengi's see death as another opportunity to get money and so the body,
instead of having an autopsy, which is strictly prohibited, is cut into
small pieces that are sealed into a disk-shaped souvenir contain, and
then sold. These disks become valuable collector's items if the dead
Ferengi was a personage of note. A Ferengi Certificate of Dismemberment
accompanies the couvenir, stating the name of the person's remains.
Ferengi believe that those who earned a profit during their mortal lives
can enter the Divine Treasury after death. There, under the guidance of
the Blessed Excheque, the Celestial Auctioneers allow them to bid on new
lives. Those who haven't earned profit are thought to be doomed to the
Vault of Eternal Destitution.

### Females {.title}

Ferengi are a sexist society. The Ferengi male views his female as
property not to be shared nor exposed to the public. Females are not
allowed an article clothing, earning of profit, traveling, looking or
speaking to strangers, or even quoting from the sacred Rules of
Acquisition. Another demeaning practice females are subjected to is
chewing food for the males. This inbred sexism is sanctioned in several
Rules Of Aquisition. Even so, a Ferengi regards his mother with
affection, often taking comfort in laying his head in her lap and
defending her honor against the taunts of mean-spirited playmates.

Small nuclear families consisting of the father, mother, and children
makes up the family structure of Ferengi society. Grandparents and
cousins do not live within the same household. The father figure is the
sole bread-earner, so his position is supreme in the house. Quark, Deep
Space Nine's bartender has an exceptionally unique mother because of she
believed that females should have rights like Ferengi males and so
changed the Ferengi government near the end of Grand Nagus Zek's term to
allow female Ferengi' to work. Ferengi marriages are male-oriented, with
a string of Latinum Dances, Bridal Auctions, and of course the scantily
clad bride to mark the event. The total enslavement of the female
population seems to come quite natural to the males, and they even
attribute their family harmony to such a culture. However, affirmative
action seems to have come into vogue even in Ferenginar. Grand Nagus Zek
revised the Ferengi Bill of Opportunities to include female Ferengis.
Understandably, Ferengi culture is still adapting to the sweeping winds
of change.

### Government {.title}

In government, the Ferengis are as openly corrupt as they are in daily
life. The Tower of Commerce on Ferenginar, the tallest building within
the Ferengi Alliance, is the bastion of profit-taking and scheming.
Going up the tower in an elevator will cost seven slips of latinum.
Talking to the front desk will mean another slip. Standing, sitting,
coming, going, the Tower absolutely swallows latinum with unparalleled
voracity. Housed within the Tower of Commerce is the headquarters of the
Ferengi Commerce Association (FCA), the most powerful single
organization within the Alliance. It is the terror of the land, as is
has jurisdiction over every aspect of a Ferengi's profit and property.
Every Ferengi must submit a yearly statement listing all the profits
earned that year. Most Ferengis conveniently "forget" to put a few items
on the list, and that is where the Ferengi IRS personnel come in.
Registered Liquidators are sent in to investigate charges of misreported
profits, and if evidence is found, or the bribe insufficient, all the
property and holdings will be summarily liquidated.

Ferengi's have a salvage code which states that anything found abandoned
is open to claim by those who find it. The Ferengi who took over the
Enterprise-D in 2369 tried to claim the ship under this very same code.
The Ferengi have two main types of vessel, the Ferengi Marauder (D'Kora
class) which is quoted to have a weapon that is able to destroy a
Federation Galaxy class vessel. These ships also have smaller vessels
which are classed as Ferengi Pods. The Marauder were designed to allow
450 Ferengi's aboard. A Ferengi shuttle is a two person transport, also
known as the Ferengi pod. These shuttles are carried aboard Ferengi
Marauders.

### Grand Nagus {.title}

The Grand Nagus is the Ferengi master of commerce. The Grand Nagus has
enormous power over Ferengi business, controlling the allocation of
trade territories and other commercial opportunities. When a Nagus dies,
his body is immediately vacuum-desiccated and pieces are sold as
collectors items at handsome prices. The Grand Nagus carries an ornate
cane symbolizing his high rank. The cane features a sculpted Ferengi
head made of gold at its top. It is customary to honor the Nagus by
kissing the head of the cane. The first Grand Nagus was Gint, the
ancient entrepreneur who first devised the Ferengi Rules of Acquisition
that guide Ferengi commerce. Grand Nagus Zek being tired of the affairs
of state chose Rom as his successor, a decision which reflected his goal
of remaking Ferengis into a kinder, gentler race. With a person as
decent and nice as Rom as Grand Nagus, the Alliance would see sweeping
changes to curb the greed and bad reputation of Ferengis. With the end
of the Dominion War accompanying Rom's ascension to the post of Grand
Nagus, a new day truly has dawned on Ferenginar.

History {.title}
-------

The Ferengi originate from the planet Ferenginar. 10,000 years passed
before the squabbling Ferengi-populated planets finally united to form
the Ferengi Alliance, their present governing system. By the 2300's,
Ferengi acquired warp drive technology and could engage in interstellar
travels. The Alliance is ruled by the Grand Nagus, recognized as the
greatest merchant and slyest manipulator in the Quadrant. The Grand
Nagus possess the power to rewrite the Rules of Acquisition, which sets
in print many useful and ruthless principles of capitalism to be
employed by all Ferengi. These rules, of which there are currently 285,
are memorized and taken to heart by every Ferengi boy at a young age.

The Federation knew very little of the Ferengi Alliance until first
contact was made in 2364 at the planet Delphi Ardu. The Ferengi
encountered by the away-team of the Enterprise-D wielded stunning whips,
snarled viciously, hissed incomprehensible remarks, and was quite
unsociable. However, though hostile at first, Ferengi soon realized the
market potential the Federation had to offer and many have established
businesses on Federation planets and starbases.

Shortly after first contact with the Federation, Ferengi entrepreneurs
saw new opportunities and quickly assimilated themselves into Federation
commerce, such as Quark, a Ferengi who established a bar at Deep Space
9. The Ferengi are not members of the Federation. Ferengi entrepreneurs
served as intermediaries for the Karemma in commerce with the
Federation. The Karemma sought this arrangement because the Dominion
would not have tolerated direct trade with the Federation. One Ferengi
quotation says, "Never ask when you can take." Another Ferengi saying
is, "Good things come in small packages". A terrible financial decline
struck in the mid 24th century, causing rampant inflation and currency
devaluation. This catastrophe became known as the Great Monetary
Collapse. During the Dominion war, when most of the Alpha Quadrant
powers were battling the Dominion threat pouring in from the Gamma
Quadrant, the Ferengi Alliance blissfully stayed neutral, content to
rake their profit even when chaos abounds just by the side. War for
other worlds is expensive, long, and detrimental to internal economy, so
why engage in war?

In 2374, at one time there were two Naguses in power: Zek and Brunt. Zek
had lost his power when his amendment of the Ferengi Bill of
Opportunities to give females the right to wear clothing resulted in
planetary chaos on Ferenginar and he was removed from office. Brunt
became now Acting Grand Nagus, a temporary position which could have
been made permanent if the FCA followed through and gave him the title
of full Nagus. Zek succeeded in getting the FCA to reinstate him,
through the allure and intelligence of "Lumba". Zek successfully
regained his position, and he carried out a series of amendments to the
Bill of Rights, such as taxation to fund social welfare programs and
environmental protection. Ishka is heavily suspected to have been the
driving force behind these unprecedented legislation, and great upheaval
accompanied each amendment. As Quark puts it: Ferenginar will soon be
like the Federation.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-etopian.h Etopian 
  tml)                     [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Flarn
   [Next](species-flarn.ht 
  ml)                      
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
