---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Bandi
...

Bandi

[Prev](species-acamarian.html) 

Species

 [Next](species-benzite.html)

* * * * *

Bandi {.title}
-----

### Jason Lee {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

29 April 2002

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-bandi.html#idp140478691414864)

[Overview](species-bandi.html#idp140478691554192)

[History](species-bandi.html#idp140478691555424)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   Denev IV

 Height (Average) 
:   6' 2"

 Weight (Average) 
:   170 lbs

 Lifespan 
:   Unknown

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   "Encounter at Farpoint" (TNG)

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Unlikely

Overview {.title}
--------

The Bandi are generally tall and slender with pale skin and straight
gray hair. Bandi men wear their hair long and often cover it with cloth
scarves. Bandi are genetically older than they appear, including the
children. This appearance may be a result of the harsh enviroment of
Deneb IV where the vegetation is sparse and the surface is swept by
fierce winds. The Bandi seem to be quiet, and pleasant people who seem
to enjoy meeting with other aliens. The Bandi seem to respect other
aliens and other alien cultures. Although Bandi are somewhat placid and
stoic in their behavior, their art is quite opposite. Bandi seem to have
no desire leave their world and prefer offworlders to visit them
instead. The Bandi dress modestly leaving the only skin exposed is their
hands and face; their clothing is made of fabric that covers their arms
and legs. The clothing seems to be densely woven and richly embroidered,
but not brightly colored. A few Bandi wear draped scarves out of the
same material of their clothing with fringes that hang down.

History {.title}
-------

The Bandi attempted to apply for Federation membership in the early
2360s. They claimed to built an enormous technological space station,
completely of modern design. This station was called Farpoint Station
and seemed to be made out of tritanium and duraglass. The station's
adminstrator and the leader of the Bandi people was Groppler Zorn, who
lead the petition for Federation membership. The station was in exact
accordance with Starfleet requirements, however it seemed unlikely that
the Bandi were able to built such a station. The Bandi claimed that
Deneb IV's plentiful resources of geothermal energy enabled them to
construct Farpoint Station in record time, however Starfleet was
suspicious. The materials that the station was built on were a contrast
to the main Bandi city, the Old City. In addition, many of the materials
that Farpoint was built on were not available on Deneb IV. The USS
Enterprise was sent to investigate and the USS Hood brought several key
officers to the USS Enterprise. The Enterprise discovered that Farpoint
station was actually an alien lifeform in which the Bandi had captured
and forced it to their will. Due to this discovery, the Bandi's petition
for membership was rejected.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-acamarian Acamarian 
  .html)                   [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Benzite
   [Next](species-benzite. 
  html)                    
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
