---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Chameloid
...

Chameloid

[Prev](species-caitian.html) 

Species

 [Next](species-cytherian.html)

* * * * *

Chameloid {.title}
---------

### Elana Rubin {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

2 November 2001

Approved by Unknown

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Abstract](species-chameloid.html#idp140478691404480)

[Overview](species-chameloid.html#idp140478691945248)

[History](species-chameloid.html#idp140478691948288)

Abstract {.title}
--------

 Homeworld 
:   Unknown

 Height (Average) 
:   Varies

 Weight (Average) 
:   Varies

 Lifespan 
:   Unknown

 Entry Type 
:   Canon

 Source 
:   "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country"

 Found in Starfleet 
:   Never

Overview {.title}
--------

A unique feature of the Chameloid is its ability to shape shift. A
Chameloid's physique is unlike that of a Changelings in that a Chameloid
is a "solid", with muscles and a skeleton. The skeleton is made of a
very strong and flexible cartilage that acts a little like elastic but
with no diminishing of its overall strength when "streched". A Chameloid
have more then twice the amount of muscles that a Human has. Chameloids
have an amazing knowledge of of their race's physique, as well as
physiques of other races, and without this knowlenge when a Chameloid
changes into another species the change would only be superficial. With
the knowledge of the physiques of other species, the Chameloid can
arrange its muscles to take advantage of that species strengths.

Chameloids can improve minor muscular structures but cannot preform
gross changes to the form of the species the Chameloid has adopted. For
example a Chameloid can improve a humans eyes so that they can see
better and farther or see better in the dark. However when they adopt
that form a Chameloid cannot change the eyes so they can see through
things on a X-ray band wave. One very curious thing about Chameloid
biology is that their genes are dominant no matter what. For example if
a Chameloid was to have a child with someone of a different species, the
child would have the shape-shifting ability with no diminishing of this
trait.

History {.title}
-------

Chameloids were long thought to be a myth until Captain Kirk met one in
a Klingon prison in 2293. In the past Chameloids have worked as spys and
other sinister ocupations. It is unknown if Chameloids have served in
Starfleet as they are extrememly rare individuals.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](species-caitian.h Caitian 
  tml)                     [Home](../index.html)
  [Up](species.html)        Cytherian
   [Next](species-cytheria 
  n.html)                  
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
