---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Fleet Seven
...

Fleet Seven

[Prev](index.html) 

The STF Histories

 

* * * * *

Fleet Seven {.title}
-----------

### Joe Fahey {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

3 February 2007

As written by Joe Fahey

* * * * *

Fleet Seven began as any other fleet with a Edict 3 by Scott Dale
Robinson, STF President, on Stardate 01041.2. Immediately it was staffed
by ships from other fleets, these being the USS Brandywine, USS Curie
and the USS Genesis along with their staffing. By Stardate 01041.9 all
ships were successfully transferred.

The first Fleet Commander was Nikolle Burchett. Her works brought forth
many things for Fleet Seven with the primary thing being the Fleet Seven
Races to determine the Fleets Flagship. Then, on Stardate 01042.8 the
USS Polaris joined the Fleet Seven Ranks.

For a year, Fleet Seven survived with only four ships happily until
Stardate 02112.5 when Emma Rouse-Deane moved the USS Maverick into Fleet
Seven with Edict 13. In addition, a new Fleet Commander was gained,
Mackael Stockhausen.

On Stardate 03041.1, Jody Romero became the Fleet Commander under
Emma-Rouse-Deane in addition to a new cabinet. He served faithfully in
that position for a little over a year before stepping down. Upon doing
so, Jessica McClary became the current Fleet Commander on Stardate
04102.8.

On Stardate 06080.1, Joe Fahey was appointed to the position of FComm-7
under the first edict of the Hemenway administration. On Stardate
06082.0, the USS Genesis was moved out of Fleet 7 to Fleet 6, in order
to fill in a vacancy there.

On 07010.4, Fleet 7 is decommissioned, with the ships in it being
reassigned to various fleets to bring them all up to a consistent number
of ships per fleet.

Information gathered by Aaron Carroll and Joe Fahey

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](index.html)       The STF Histories 
  [Up](index.html)         [Home](../index.html)
                            
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
