Gamemaster Department
1
**Q:** What do all of these acronyms mean?

AGM
:   Advanced Gamemaster

AGMDir
:   Assistant Gamemaster Director

FGM
:   Full Gamemaster

GM
:   General term for a Gamemaster of any level

GMDir
:   Gamemaster Director

GMM
:   Gamemaster Mentor

GMT
:   Gamemaster Trainee

GMO
:   Gamemaster Observer

JGM
:   Junior Gamemaster

SGM
:   Senior Gamemaster

**Q:** How do you become a GM?

**A:** In order to become a GM, you must pass through the GMT program.
There are four requirements for entrance into the program:

-   you must have been a member of STF for at least six months;

-   you must have an out-of-character rank (the highest rank you've ever
    played is your OOC rank) of Lieutenant;

-   you must have three licensed GMs that you've served with recently
    fill out the GMT program recommendation form (if you haven't served
    with three GMs, you can have your CO and/or XO recommend you
    instead);

-   you must pass the Academy GM exam with a score of 80%.

Then, you'll be paired with a Gamemaster Mentor (GMM) and together, you
two will be placed on a ship. At the end of the mission, if all goes
well, you'll become a Junior Gamemaster (JGM).

**Q:** What happens after you take the GM exam?

**A:** After you take the GM exam, and meet the requirements listed in
FAQ \#2, you'll be given a GMM, who is an experienced GM, to provide
guidance in planning your first mission and to advise you as necessary
on how to run it. Then, you and your GMM will locate a ship to run your
mission on. You'll have 60 days to run your mission under his/her watch.
At the end of the 60 days, the CO of the ship, your GMM, and the GMDir
will convene to decide if you've done well. If you have, the GMM will be
removed and you'll continue on to finish your mission. At the end of the
mission, you'll become a JGM and be a licensed GM.

**Q:** Do you have to take the GM exam?

**A:** Yes.

**Q:** How do I attain a higher GM classification?

**A:** After you pass the GM exam, you're considered to be a prospective
GM. Once everything is in order and you're waiting to be placed on a
ship, you're considered to be a GMT. After your training mission is
finished successfully, you'll become a JGM automatically. From there on
out, you have to apply for any classification increases. After you
complete three successful missions or you've been GMing actively for 18
months, you can apply to become a FGM (full Gamemaster). After you
complete ten successful missions or you've been GMing actively for three
years, you can apply to become an AGM (advanced Gamemaster). After you
complete twenty successful missions or you've been GMing actively for
five years, you can apply to become a SGM (senior Gamemaster). You can't
count your training mission toward any increase after JGM. All
classification increases must include proper documentation in the GM
Archive and are at the discretion of the Gamemaster Director.

**Q:** What are my responsibilities as a GMM?

**A:** As a GMM, your primary purpose is to advise the GMT in all steps
of running their first mission. This includes everything from the
planning through the actual execution. After 60 days, you convene with
the CO and GMDir to decide if the GMT is ready to be out on his or her
own. If your GMT needs more time to prove that s/he is ready to be on
his or her own, you may request an unlimited number of 30-day extensions
to remain on board to observe. If s/he is ready to fly solo, you'll be
removed from the ship, however, you're still your GMT's best resource
for any questions s/he might have. In the event that your GMT is removed
before their initial 60 days are complete, you'll be obligated to wrap
up their mission for continuity's sake. After the initial training
period, you'll not be obligated to do so, however, as the person who
probably knows the most about the mission, it's highly encouraged.

**Q:** How do I become a GMM?

**A:** GMMs must be FGM classification or higher. If you meet this
requirement, all you need to do is email the GMDir and you'll be placed
on a list. Most likely, you'll be assigned a GMT when you're already on
the ship that s/he is going to GM.

**Q:** When can a GM destroy a ship?

**A:** Sometimes a ship ends up getting destroyed in the course of a
mission. The GM cannot do that on his own, however. The GM, CO, and
Fleet Commander must all agree for a ship to be destroyed. Otherwise,
the GM will have to find some other means of being destructive. When a
ship is destroyed it is normally replaced with a new ship of the same
name and class, but with a letter extension (e.g., NCC-1701-A becomes
NCC-1701-B). If the new ship is going to have a new name or class, that
is between the CO and the President as it requires a Presidential Edict.

**Q:** When should a GM void a post?

**A:** Sometimes a player (or the GM) may make a post that unwittingly
ignores something that already happened, is completely unrealistic, or
breaks some law of physics (Star Trek or real) or STF. In those cases,
either the person who posted the note or the GM may declare the post
"void"; it then never happened. If the GM does so, he must also say why.
The GM should *not* void posts that do something the didn't expect, only
those that are “irreconcilable with the actions in one or more other
posts; with the laws of STF, reason, or decency; or with previously
established RPG events.”

**Q:** When can a GM kill a character?

**A:** Under normal circumstances, Gamemasters may not cause the death
of a character on a ship that is controlled by a member of STF. The
situations in which a Gamemaster may cause the death of a character on a
ship that is not a Non-Player Character (Nameless Ensign) are as
follows:

1.  AWOL. If the character has been declared AWOL, the Gamemaster may do
    whatever he likes with it, without restriction.

2.  The player gives consent to the Gamemaster, for whatever reason.

3.  If the character does something particularly suicidal that in "real
    life" would have gotten him killed, The GM is permitted to void the
    post and issue a "Death Notice", a warning to not be to be so quick
    to die. If the character does so a second time, the GM may do the
    same but must e-mail the player, CO, and XO. If the character gets
    himself killed a third time, then and only then may the GM kill the
    character. It's up to the CO if the player will be allowed to start
    a new character or will leave the ship.

Don't be too quick to issue Death Notices! Often there are better ways
to handle a situation, and the GM may not place a character in a
position where death is the only option. Unlike the real world, there
must always be a way out.
