---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Fleet Command and Other Mundane Matters
...

Fleet Command and Other Mundane Matters

[Prev](charter-go.html) 

Government structure

 [Next](charter-eeego.html)

* * * * *

Fleet Command and Other Mundane Matters {.title}
---------------------------------------

### *"FCOMM"* {.subtitle}

### President Sarah Hemenway {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 6

15 June 2011

Updated by Bill [Wonderly
\#1](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/wonderly/#b1)

Revision 5

30 January 2011

Updated by Bill [Dipper
\#1](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/dipper2/#b1)

Revision 4

15 April 2007

Based on Edict [Hemenway
\#39](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/hemenway/#e39)

Revision 3

26 September 2006

Based on Edict [Hemenway
\#10](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/hemenway/#e10)

Revision 2

13 May 2006

Based on Edict [Herr
\#22](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/herr/#e22)

Revision 1

23 June 2005

Based on Edict [Garfield
\#22](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/garfield/#e22)

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Supercedence of previous
edicts](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692597184)

[Fleet structure and command](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692598336)

[Definition](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692598976)

[Creation and Decommissioning](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692600336)

[Fleet Commander](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692601904)

[Assistant Fleet Commander](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692605184)

[Restrictions](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692606992)

[Ships](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692609008)

[Standard Ships](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692609648)

[OOC Ships](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692611328)

[Non-Crewed Ships](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692612832)

[Alternative RPG Areas](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692614272)

[Ship management](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692620672)

[Commissioning and Maintenance of Standard
Ships](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692621312)

[Ship Speeds and AWOL Limits](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692627072)

[Decommissioning](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692631744)

[Relocation](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692634288)

[Rechristening](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692635728)

[Commanding Officer (CO)](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692637536)

[Executive Officer (XO)](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692646320)

[Character Restrictions](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692648720)

[Implementation](charter-fleets.html#idp140478692657824)

Supercedence of previous edicts {.title}
-------------------------------

Edict Hemenway \#10 is hereby rescinded and superceded by this Edict.

Fleet structure and command {.title}
---------------------------

### Definition {.title}

A Fleet is a collection of one or more Role-Playing Ships under the
command of a Fleet Commander independent from other Fleets. A Fleet may
include non-RPG ships in addition to Role-Playing ships.

### Creation and Decommissioning {.title}

A Fleet may be created by Presidential Edict. A Fleet must be filled
with at least one Standard Ship and have a Fleet Commander appointed
promptly. A Fleet may be decommissioned by Presidential Edict provided
any ships within the Fleet are simultaneously decommissioned or moved to
other Fleets. If a Fleet is decommissioned, the related Fleet Commander
and Assistant Fleet Commander positions are eliminated.

### Fleet Commander {.title}

All Fleets are commanded by a Fleet Commander, appointed by the
President. The Fleet Commander is considered a member of the Cabinet.
The Fleet Commander is charged with seeing to the proper functioning of
the Fleet under his command and the administration of related COs, XOs,
and other Ship Administrators. The Fleet Commander is responsible for
the outward image of the Fleet under his command, for reporting to the
President and working with the President on matters of Fleet business,
and other duties as specified in this and other Edicts.

Specifically, the Fleet Commander is responsible for ensuring that the
Ships under his command are healthy and properly functioning role
playing environments, that the internal and external pages under his
jurisdiction are maintained, and that fleet reports which detail the
current status of each ship under his or her command are submitted to
the President. The President is responsible for dictating in policy how
and when fleet reports should be submitted.

In the event that the positions of CO and XO on a ship both become
vacant simultaneously, due to AWOL, eLOA, resignation, or other
circumstances, the Fleet Commander may appoint an aCO and aXO. They must
notify the President of such action and relay their recommendation on
whether replacing the CO permanently is necessary or not.

### Assistant Fleet Commander {.title}

Each Fleet Commander is required to appoint a single Assistant Fleet
Commander. The Assistant Fleet Commander's primary responsibility is to
take over as acting Fleet Commander should the Fleet Commander declare a
LOA. An Assistant Fleet Commander may declare the Fleet Commander AWOL
with the consent of the President and assume the position of acting
Fleet Commander until such time as the President appoints a new Fleet
Commander. Additional duties may be assigned to the Assistant Fleet
Commander at the discretion of the Fleet Commander. The Assistant Fleet
Commander is considered a member of Command, but is not a member of the
Cabinet.

### Restrictions {.title}

The Fleet Commander must be a current or former CO of the fleet in
question, or a current or former XO in the fleet in question with CO
experience. The Assistant Fleet Commander must be a current or former CO
or XO of the fleet in question. Equivalent positions in an Alternate RPG
Area may count equivalently. Acting CO or XO does not count.No
individual may be the Fleet Commander or Assistant Fleet Commander of
more than one Fleet at a time, nor may any individual be Fleet Commander
of one Fleet and Assistant Fleet Commander of another Fleet at the same
time. The President may not be the Fleet Commander or Assistant Fleet
Commander of any Fleet. Acting holder of a position does not count
towards these restrictions.

Ships {.title}
-----

### Standard Ships {.title}

A Standard Ship is any self-contained RPG Starship or Starbase,
commanded by a CO, on which regular RPGs take place under the
administration of the GameMaster Department and the Fleet Commander. All
Standard Ships must reside in a Fleet and be a Starfleet vessel or
starbase. Additionally, all Standard Ships are set approximately 376
years after the current modern year. That is, the year 2000 real time
corresponds to the year 2376 In Character time, and one-year real time
corresponds to approximately one year RPG time.

### OOC Ships {.title}

An OOC Ship is a starship, starbase, or other similar division that is
present in a Fleet or an Executive Department but not staffed by a crew
or the site of an actual RPG. OOC Ships are intended for Out of
Character interaction between STF members. OOC Ships are established
managed at the discretion of the Fleet Commander or Department Director.

### Non-Crewed Ships {.title}

A Non-Crewed Ship is a Starship or Starbase that is considered part of a
Fleet for RPG purposes but is not actively commissioned nor staffed by
Player Characters. Non-Crewed ships assigned to a Fleet are available
for use by GMs for RPG purposes, and if destroyed are recycled.

### Alternative RPG Areas {.title}

#### Definition {.title}

Alternate RPG Areas are those areas where RPGs take place that do not
meet one or more of the characteristics for Standard Ships. The
President may establish by edict a charter for an Alternative RPG Area
within a given Fleet, with the consent of the applicable Fleet
Commander. If nothing is specified for a given parameter of the RPG
environment, it is assumed to be the same as a Standard RPG Area. For
example, if no time frame is specified, the Alternate RPG Area is
assumed to operate in the same time as Standard RPG Areas.

#### Leadership {.title}

Alternative RPG Areas will have a Leader or Administrator who is
responsible for seeing to the well being of the Area. Their specific
functions, including their specific title, will be specified by the
chartering Edict if they differ from those of a standard ship. The
Alternative RPG Area charter must also specify whether the Leader or
Administrator position counts as an XO or CO position for purposes of XO
and CO restrictions, and any special rules or circumstances regarding
the naming of the Leader or Administrator. If not specified, the Leader
or Administrator is called the Commanding Officer (CO), is appointed by
the President in the same fashion as a Standard Ship CO, and will count
towards a CO position as on a Standard Ship.

#### Charter {.title}

In addition to the above requirements, the Alternative RPG Area charter
must also specify whether or not RPG ranks in the Area count towards a
member's Member Rank or not and whether the environment is a Second
Character Only environment or not. The Personnel Department may only
assign new members to an Alt RPG if the new member specifically requests
that assignment and the ship is chartered or marked as able to accept
new members who request such an assignment. The charter must also
include minimum standards that the RPG must maintain in order to remain
a commissioned environment. The Alternative RPG Area's charter may only
be amended by Presidential Edict, with the consent of the related Fleet
Commander and Area Leader or Administrator.

Ship management {.title}
---------------

### Commissioning and Maintenance of Standard Ships {.title}

All Standard Ships in a Fleet are commissioned by Presidential Edict,
with the prior consent the Fleet Commander. The Fleet Commander must
choose a ship name and a class approved by the Engineering Department
for that purpose prior to commissioning. Starbases must have Engineering
Department approved specs prior to commissioning as well. If the ship
class as approved by the Engineering Department includes a list of ship
names, the name must come from that list, with changes to that list
governed by Engineering Department policy. No two ships in STF may be of
the same name simultaneously.

All Standard Ships are required to maintain the following criteria:

-   They must maintain an enjoyable environment that is beneficial for
    both the ship and the club as a whole.

-   They must maintain a crew of reliable players, with the majority
    within the ship-specific AWOL guidelines.

-   They must maintain, within reason, a full command and senior staff,
    defined as a Commanding Officer, an Executive Officer, a Gamemaster,
    a Chief Engineer, a Chief Medical Officer, a Chief Science Officer,
    and a Chief of Security. Any command-level vacancy must be filled
    within 14 days of its occurrence.

-   They must manage to function as a Standard Ship successfully, with
    due regard to the current time period and technology level.

Should a Standard Ship deviate from these criteria, it will be subject
to decommissioning per the terms of this Edict.

### Ship Speeds and AWOL Limits {.title}

All ships must have a designated ship speed and the respective set of
AWOL limits. For Standard Ships these are:

-   Fast: 2 days for Command Staff (including GM), 3 days for Department
    Heads and 4 days for all others

-   Medium: 3 days for Command Staff (including GM), 5 days for
    Department Heads and 7 days for all others

-   Slow: 5 days for Command Staff (including GM), 7 days for Department
    Heads and 10 days for all others.

Should the CO wish to change the speed of the ship, they must seek the
approval of their FComm.

Should RPG areas wish to use a non-standard set of AWOL limits, they
must be commissioned as an Alternative RPG and have the AWOL limit set
in their charter. Alternative RPGs without an AWOL limit set in their
charter will need to comply with the above standards.

### Decommissioning {.title}

Decommissioning a Role-Playing Area shall be considered the last resort
when dealing with an environment that no longer meets the required
critera. Before decommissioning an Area, reasonable effort by the Fleet
Commander and by the Area Commanding Officer must be made to restore the
environment. This may include (but is not required to, nor limited to)
public discussion, advertisement in the Personnel Department, or
replacement of the Area's Commanding Officer.

Standard Ships and Alternate RPG Areas may be decommissioned by
Presidential Edict. If a ship is decommissioned, all positions relating
to that Ship are eliminated. For a Standard Ship, the appropriate Fleet
Commander will work with the Personnel Department in order to place
remaining crewmembers in positions equal or greater than held on the
decommissioned ship, should they desire it. The Internet Department will
be responsible for the archival and removal of any resources relating to
the decommissioned ship.

### Relocation {.title}

Any Role Playing Area may be moved from one Fleet to another by
Presidential Edict with the consent of the related Fleet Commanders. The
Commanding Officer may be consulted about the relocation and must be
informed in a reasonable amount of time about the impending relocation.

### Rechristening {.title}

A Standard Ship in service in a Fleet may be rechristened to a new name
and/or class by Presidential Edict with the consent of the Fleet
Commander and the ship's CO. A ship may be destroyed and automatically
replaced with a new vessel of the same name and class with prior consent
of the Fleet Commander and CO. Both events may occur simultaneously with
the approval of all those listed above and under the condition that the
new name must be chosen from the name list of the new class. Should a
ship be rechristened with the same name as it held previously, either
due to a change of class or destruction, it shall incur a one-letter
suffix increment.

### Commanding Officer (CO) {.title}

The CO of a RPG Ship serves as the ship's Administrator and In-Character
commanding officer. A CO is appointed by Presidential Edict, with the
advice and consent of the Fleet Commander. A CO may be removed by the
Fleet Commander with the consent of the President. The removal is then
made official by the Presidential Edict that replaces the CO.

#### Responsibilities {.title}

In addition to acting as the In Character Commanding Officer, the CO is
responsible for ensuring that the crew stays active; managing personnel,
recruiting personnel, and enforcing AWOL policies on the ship; ensuring
that new members are given adequate assistance as needed; maintaining
the ship's MOTD; optionally maintaining a Ship or Captain's Log;
submitting reports to the Fleet Commander as mandated; and further
duties as assigned by the Fleet Commander or established by Edict. The
CO is responsible for ensuring the completion of his or her duties, even
if they are delegated to someone else.

#### Powers {.title}

The CO has the power to promote members of his or her crew up to and
including the rank of Lieutenant Commander. The CO may promote members
of his or her crew to the rank of Commander with the consent of the
Fleet Commander.

The CO may establish and staff additional 'Swing' positions on a ship as
deemed appropriate, in keeping with the design of the class of the ship
in question.

The CO also has the power to dismiss members of their crews if they
determine that such action is necessary to preserve or restore the
ability of the ship to function effectively. A member dismissed from a
ship may appeal the decision to the FComm (or AFComm if the CO in
question is FComm). Should the FComm (or AFComm) support the decision of
the CO, the ruling is final. Should the FComm overturn the ruling, the
CO may appeal to the President (or the Vice President if the President
is the CO in Question); in this case, the President's (or Vice
President's) decision is final. Other powers may be specified by Edict
or by the Fleet Commander.

#### Restrictions {.title}

No individual may hold more than one CO position simultaneously. Acting
CO does not count towards this limit.

Second Player Characters are restricted to JOs and below. That means
that no player may hold two DH positions on a single ship at once, or a
Command position and a DH position on a single ship at once. Acting DH,
Acting XO and Acting CO do not apply to these restrictions.

COs are encouraged to use strict discretion when allowing non-canon
positions, character types, and second player characters so that their
ship maintains a healthy, fun, and canon-compatible role playing
environment.

### Executive Officer (XO) {.title}

In addition to RPG duties, the XO is responsible for assisting other
members of the ship as needed. The CO may enlist the aid of his XO in
fulfilling his or her ship management duties, but the CO will remain
ultimately responsible for them. The XO's primary responsibility is to
take over as acting CO (aCO) should the CO declare an LOA. An XO may
declare the CO AWOL with the consent of the Fleet Commander and assume
the position of acting CO until such time as the President appoints a
new CO. A CO may appoint his or her own XO with the consent of the Fleet
Commander, should the Fleet Commander choose to exercise such authority.

No individual may hold more than one XO position simultaneously. Acting
XO does not count towards this limit. When choosing an XO, preference
should be given to members who do not currently have a CO position if
possible.

### Character Restrictions {.title}

Every Non-Civilian Player Character must have an adequate and believable
reason for joining Starfleet that does not violate canon. Civilian
characters must have an adequate and believable reason for being
permitted to serve on a Starfleet vessel or base. Player Characters on
Alternate RPGs may violate these rules only if such violations are
specified and explained in the Alternate RPG charter.

Player Characters shall follow these guidelines:

-   Canon Federation member species are acceptable. Examples of Canon
    Federation member species include Humans, Vulcans, Trill, Andorians,
    and Betazoids.

-   Canon Allied species are discouraged, and permitted only in special
    circumstances with the prior consent of the CO. Examples of Canon
    Allied species include Klingons.

-   Canon Neutral or Hostile species are forbidden. Examples of Canon
    Neutral or Hostile species include Romulans, Ferengi, Cardassians,
    Borg, and Breen.

-   Custom Federation member species are discouraged, and permitted only
    in special circumstances with the prior consent of the CO. The
    character and species must have an adequate and believable
    back-story that explains why the character is in Starfleet and why
    the species is a Federation member or ally. If the custom character
    species is created by someone other than the player, the player must
    have the creator's permission to play that character species. If the
    creator cannot be reached, the species may only be played if the
    information given about it is publically accessible and not
    restricted.

-   Custom allied, neutral, or hostile species are forbidden.

-   "God moding" or "super" characters are strictly forbidden. Examples
    of "God-moding" or "Super" characters include Borg, Species 8472, Q,
    and Changelings.

-   Mixed-species characters must be a believable mix, and of no more
    than three (3) species.

The decision regarding any character type rests with the Commanding
Officer of the ship where the character will be played. Any dispute
between a player and a CO will be moderated and decided upon by the
appropriate Fleet Commander. In the event that the CO is also the Fleet
Commander, the dispute will be moderated by the Assistant Fleet
Commander. The decision by the Fleet Commander or Assistant Fleet
Commander shall be considered final.

In the special circumstance where it is felt a player can adequately and
believably play a forbidden character species, the player may do so with
the consent of the Commanding Officer and the related Fleet Commander.
In the event that the CO is also the Fleet Commander, the approval of
the Assistant Fleet Commander is required. This consent may be removed
if the player does not maintain the adequate and believable requirement.
In both cases, any decision made is final and not appealable.

Implementation {.title}
--------------

All current Player Characters are exempt from the Character Restrictions
set forth in this Edict. If a player discontinues playing an exempt
Player Character for any reason, the Player Character's exempt status is
forfeited and the player must either choose a valid character species or
seek approval through the requirements listed before resuming the
Character.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](charter-go.html)  Government Organization 
  [Up](govtstructure.html) [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](charter-eeego.ht  Establishment Edict for
  ml)                      Executive Government
                           Oversight
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
