---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Starfleet Academy
...

Starfleet Academy

[Prev](departments.html) 

Executive Departments and Assistants

 [Next](charter-code.html)

* * * * *

Starfleet Academy {.title}
-----------------

### President Daniel Lerner {.author}

### Academy Commandant Jack Dipper {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 3

23 March 2008

Based on Edict [Lerner
\#3](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/lerner/#e3)

Revision 2

6 July 2006

Based on Edict [Herr
\#32](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/herr/#e32)

Revision 1

20 September 2005

Based on Edict [Dipper
\#22](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/dipper/#e22)

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Supercedence of previous edicts](charter-acad.html#idp140478692894464)

[Establishment of the Academy
Department](charter-acad.html#idp140478692895776)

[Establishment of Academy Courses](charter-acad.html#idp140478692900272)

[Establishment of the Academy
Fleet](charter-acad.html#idp140478692902016)

[Academy Fleet Command Structure](charter-acad.html#idp140478692904240)

[Joining the Academy Fleet](charter-acad.html#idp140478692920400)

[Departing From the Academy Fleet](charter-acad.html#idp140478692922896)

[Disputes](charter-acad.html#idp140478692931808)

Supercedence of previous edicts {.title}
-------------------------------

Herr \#32 is hereby rescinded and superceded by this edict.

Establishment of the Academy Department {.title}
---------------------------------------

An Executive Department is hereby established under the name "Starfleet
Academy".

Starfleet Academy shall serve as a resource to the membership on matters
relating to ongoing training and development in STF.

The daily activity of Starfleet Academy shall be overseen by the Academy
Commandant, who shall be appointed by the President. The Academy
Commandant is a cabinet position, and is equal in power to other
departmental directors and Fleet Commanders.

The Vice Commandant shall be appointed by the Academy Commandant. The
Vice Commandant answers directly to the Academy Commandant, and is
responsible for departmental decisions in the event the Academy
Commandant is not available. Additional responsibilities are at the
discretion of the Academy Commandant.

The Academy Commandant and the Vice Commandant must have had three
months Academy experience (excluding time served as a cadet), preferably
as a Commanding Officer or Executive Officer on an Academy Ship.

The Academy Commandant may delegate any of his duties enumerated in this
Edict, or any other responsibilities incumbent upon him as a result of
another Edict, to another named staff member of Starfleet Academy.

Establishment of Academy Courses {.title}
--------------------------------

The Academy shall maintain a set of courses, which must at least include
a course for Engineering, Gamemaster (in coordination with the
Gamemaster Department), Medical, Science, and Security. Additional
courses are at the discretion of the Academy Commandant. These courses
are taken on a voluntary basis. Should a member pass one of the courses,
greater consideration for a Department Head position should be granted.
Passing one of the courses does not guarantee a promotion.

Establishment of the Academy Fleet {.title}
----------------------------------

A new fleet is hereby established within Starfleet Academy. The Fleet
will house all Academy Training Ships as well as the Academy
administrative areas. The Academy Commandant and Vice Commandant will
have the same powers as Fleet Commander and Assistant Fleet Commander
respectively, unless otherwise defined by this edict.

The Academy Commandant is responsible for setting an AWOL/LOA policy in
an Academy Mandate. This policy should be maintained on an Academy page,
and linked from the main Academy MOTD and the Academy ships' MOTDs.

Academy Fleet Command Structure {.title}
-------------------------------

A member can only hold a total of one CO, XO or CNS position in the
Academy fleet, at a time.

An Academy mission lasts for three months; should a mission last for
more than four months (120 days), the Gamemaster is to work with the CO
and the XO in order to end the mission as soon as possible. Gamemasters
are required to submit a mission plan to the Academy Commandant and Vice
Commandant prior to the commencement of a mission.

Preference for filling DH positions goes to a Lt (j.g.) graduated Cadet,
however an exception may be made if, in the opinion of the CO and the
Academy Commandant, the field of graduated Cadets are not strong enough
to handle the responsibility of a DH role, and thus training incoming
Cadets. In this instance, an experienced Lt DH from a mainstream ship
can be used instead.

 Commanding Officer (CO) 
:   The CO is appointed by the President of STF, with the advice and
    consent of the Academy Commandant. The CO will have the powers and
    responsibilities of a mainstream CO, except that he cannot promote
    members of his crew. The character rank of the CO must be Captain.
    Academy COs must have held the position of CO on a mainstream ship
    for a minimum of three months, and Academy experience is preferable.

 Executive Officer (XO) 
:   The XO is appointed by the CO, with the advice and consent of the
    Academy Commandant. The XO will have the powers and responsibilities
    of a mainstream XO. The character rank of the XO must be Commander.
    Academy XOs must have held the position of XO on a mainstream ship
    for a minimum of three months, and Academy experience is preferable.

 Counselor (CNS) 
:   The CNS is appointed by the CO, with the advice and consent of the
    Academy Commandant. The CNS will not have any administrative tasks,
    but will be required to assist Cadets with posting. The character
    rank of the CNS must be Lieutenant Commander. Academy CNS must have
    held the position of DH on either on a mainstream ship or an Academy
    ship for a minimum of three months.

 Gamemaster (GM) 
:   The GM is appointed by the CO, with the advice and consent of the
    Academy Commandant. The Gamemaster of an Academy ship must be an
    experienced GM holding the classification of Full Gamemaster. If a
    Full Gamemaster, or higher, cannot be found, a Junior Gamemaster may
    be considered. Gamemaster Trainees may not be considered, under any
    circumstance. Should the GM be removed mid-mission, the mission is
    to be continued by the Command Staff, without interruption, and a
    replacement Gamemaster is to be found within two weeks.

:   Each standard department (Engineering, Medical, Science and
    Security) has one department head. A DH position may be filled in
    one of two ways, at the discretion of the CO, notifying the Academy
    Commandant.

:   Each standard department (Engineering, Medical, Science and
    Security) can hold a maximum of three Cadets. Cadets who serve on
    the Academy ships shall hold the member rank of Cadet and are not
    eligible for rank promotion while they take part in their training.
    Due to the high demand for Academy spots, Cadets on the training
    vessels (who have not graduated, or are not in the process of
    graduating) can only be transferred or offered a position on another
    ship with the consent of the Academy Commandant.

With the exception of Cadet, all Academy ranks do not affect the
player's member rank.

Joining the Academy Fleet {.title}
-------------------------

New members may request to join an Academy Training Ships when joining
STF. The Personnel Department is required to honour department and
posting speed choices, if possible, and allocate them evenly throughout
the fleet. If the department and posting speed choices cannot be
honoured, the new member will be placed on a mainstream ship. The
Academy Commandant is to be informed if a member was unable to be
placed.

Current members on mainstream ships may also request to join the
Academy. In this case, admission is dependent on the judgment of the
member's Commanding Officers and Academy Commandant. They are to assess
whether the member is struggling and whether he would benefit from
Academy training. If a member does join the Academy in this manner, he
must drop all of his mainstream ships. No member can be forced to join
the Academy.

Departing From the Academy Fleet {.title}
--------------------------------

There are three ways a Cadet can leave the Academy Fleet.

At the end of each mission, Cadets who have served an appropriate amount
of time will be promoted to the rank of Ensign, and positions will be
found for them on mainstream ships. The Academy will provide support to
Cadets who are deemed to be needing it, and will notify the ships CO on
areas the Cadet is weak in. Cadets who have exceeded expectations may be
asked to stay on board the Academy ships as Lt (j.g.) Department Heads.

The Academy Commandant, in discussion with a Cadet's CO, may choose to
graduate the Cadet prior to the end of the mission. In these cases, the
Cadet will be granted all the rights and privileges of a regular
end-of-mission graduation.

Cadets that request to leave the Academy prior to graduation are
required to wait 120 days before they can be promoted from Ensign. In
the event that a Cadet should leave the Academy early, his name will be
placed on a list maintained by the Academy stating the exact date that
the Cadet is eligible for rank promotion; this includes any Cadets that
AWOL. All COs are requested to keep themselves familiar with this list.
The Academy Commandant is responsible for contacting the CO of the ship
that the Cadet went to when he originally left the Academy, and
providing the CO with this information as well.

In the case of AWOL Cadets, should they return to STF, the Academy
Commandant may allow them to re-enter the Academy training program on a
case by case basis. There is no guarantee, however, that they will be
placed in the same department or on the same ship.

Serving on any training ship is optional. Cadets who join the Academy
program, thinking that it is mandatory, may approach the Academy
Commandant and request to be transferred to a mainstream ship, provided
they do so immediately upon finding out that the Academy is not
mandatory. The Academy Commandant is required to give such requests due
consideration. Upon the Academy Commandant's approval, the Cadet may be
found a place on a mainstream ship as an Ensign, with all the rights and
privileges that a new member, who is placed on a mainstream ship, has.

Any other reasons for early departure are to be reviewed by the Academy
Commandant and Vice Commandant on a case by case basis.

The Academy Commandant, in discussion with a Cadet's CO, may remove a
Cadet from the Academy program, and find a place for the Cadet on a
mainstream ship at the rank of Ensign. The CO and XO of the mainstream
ship will be notified of the circumstances surrounding the Cadet's
removal. If deemed appropriate by the Academy Commandant, the President
may also be informed.

1.  Graduation from the Academy.

2.  Departure from the Academy prior to graduation.

3.  Removal from the Academy by the Academy Commandant.

Disputes {.title}
--------

Any dispute involving the Academy shall be moderated by the Academy
Commandant. Should any of the involved parties be the Academy
Commandant, the dispute shall be moderated by the Vice Commandant.
Should the dispute involve the Academy Commandant and Vice Commandant,
the dispute shall be moderated by the President.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](departments.html) Executive Departments
                           and Assistants 
  [Up](departments.html)   [Home](../index.html)
   [Next](charter-code.htm  The Coder
  l)                       
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
