---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Legislative Edict Governing Official Elections
...

Legislative Edict Governing Official Elections

[Prev](charter-eeego.html) 

Government structure

 [Next](charter-babe.html)

* * * * *

Legislative Edict Governing Official Elections {.title}
----------------------------------------------

### *"LEGOE"* {.subtitle}

### President Jen Herr {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 4

30 June 2014

Updated to reflect the missing changes by [Lerner
\#18](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/lerner/#e18)

Revision 3

14 February 2010

Updated by Bill [Herr
\#2](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/herr2/#b2)

Revision 2

16 August 2007

Based on Edict [Hemenway
\#51](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/hemenway/#e51)

Revision 1

1 April 2007

Based on Edict [Hemenway
\#16](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/hemenway/#e16)

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Supercedence of previous
edicts](charter-elections.html#idp140478692730000)

[Establishment of Election Season and Election
Area](charter-elections.html#idp140478692731152)

[Election Coordinator and Assistant Election
Coordinator](charter-elections.html#idp140478692732624)

[Procedure](charter-elections.html#idp140478692737680)

[Introduction](charter-elections.html#idp140478692738320)

[Eligibility](charter-elections.html#idp140478692740432)

[Nominations](charter-elections.html#idp140478692742624)

[Uncontested Elections](charter-elections.html#idp140478692745248)

[Campaigns](charter-elections.html#idp140478692747824)

[Election Area MOTD](charter-elections.html#idp140478692755440)

[Voting](charter-elections.html#idp140478692758160)

[Results](charter-elections.html#idp140478692762320)

[Withdrawls, Invalidations, and
Disqualifications](charter-elections.html#idp140478692764320)

[Irregularities](charter-elections.html#idp140478692770176)

[Conclusion](charter-elections.html#idp140478692774592)

Supercedence of previous edicts {.title}
-------------------------------

Edict Hemenway \#16 is hereby rescinded and superceded by this Edict.

Establishment of Election Season and Election Area {.title}
--------------------------------------------------

Election Season is hereby established as the period of time starting
with the beginning of the nomination period and ending with the
announcement of the final election results. The Election Area is hereby
established as an area of the WeBB set aside specifically for
Election-related business and discussion.

Election Coordinator and Assistant Election Coordinator {.title}
-------------------------------------------------------

The Election Coordinator is an Executive Assistant with complete powers
over the Elections. However, their power is limited to the Elections
only, and ceases to exist once the elections are over and all pending
disputes are resolved.

The Assistant Election Coordinator is an Executive Assistant whose
powers are only exercised during one of the following conditions: a) the
Election Coordinator has declared an LOA during the Election Season, b)
the Election Coordinator is AWOL during the Election Season, or c) the
Election Coordinator has missed a deadline contained in this Edict or
the Election Timetable. During the stated conditions, the Assistant
Election Coordinator's powers are those of the Election Coordinator, and
shall also be required to perform the tasks of the Election Coordinator.

The Election Coordinator may not delegate any tasks unless specific
assistance or expertise is required, subject to the requirements under
this Edict for the Assistant Election Coordinator to perform the
Election Coordinator's tasks. The Internet Director is required to
provide the Election Coordinator with whatever access to the STF server
and system resources are required in order to fulfill his
responsibilities and provide assistance in using them as needed. Such
resources may include, but are not limited to, server shell access, file
upload access, IRC operator status, and member account information.

The Election Coordinator is tasked to see to the proper running and
functioning of a democratic election process. In order to enforce this,
the Election Coordinator is empowered to provide official warnings or
reprimands, remove election related material from the STF server, remove
voting privileges, remove posting privileges on the Election Area, and,
in the most extreme cases, nullify or void a campaign ticket. Election
matters may be taken to the President for further club-level punishment.
All rulings by the Election Coordinator are final and are not subject to
appeal.

The Election Coordinator and Assistant Election Coordinator are to be
the impartial moderators of the Election and are therefore forbidden
from running as a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate, from
nominating or seconding any candidate, from campaigning for any
candidate, and from openly endorsing any candidate.

Procedure {.title}
---------

### Introduction {.title}

The Election Season is to commence no later than the start of the
President's eighth month in office. The President must name an Election
Coordinator and Assistant Election Coordinator via Edict at least two
weeks prior to the start of the Election Season. Once an Election
Coordinator and Assistant Election Coordinator are named, the Internet
Department will open the Election Area. The Election Coordinator must
announce, in Command and in the Election Area, an Election Timetable at
least one week prior to the commencement of the Election Season, as well
as any additional rules governing the Election. The Timetable will set
out the timing of the different stages of the Election Season, and is to
be one month in total. Both the Timetable and a link to any Election
rules must remain posted on the Election Area MOTD. The Election Area
will be deactivated no less than seven and no more than 14 days after
the Election Season has concluded.

### Eligibility {.title}

Generally, all members are invited to participate in the election
process. For the purpose of this Edict, the definition of 'member' is
the same as found in Member Order and Organization.

Certain election activities, including nominating, running as a
Presidential or Vice-Presidential candidate, endorsing, and voting, are
limited to members with special eligibility. For the purpose of this
Edict, an 'eligible member' is defined as a person who meets the
definition of 'member' 30 days prior to the start of the Election
Season, and continues to meet the definition up to and including the
time of the election activity in question.

### Nominations {.title}

Any eligible Member can nominate another eligible Member for the
position of President. Another eligible Member must then second the
nomination. A prospective Presidential Candidate may not nominate or
second their own ticket; however, a prospective Vice Presidential
Candidate may do so. A Member can only nominate or second one
individual; however, if that individual declines the nomination, the
nominating Members are free to nominate another individual. A Member
cannot run for the position of President if they have nominated or
seconded another Member unless the nominated Member has declined the
nomination or is otherwise ineligible to run.

Once the nomination has been seconded, the Candidate must publicly
accept the nomination and declare another eligible Member to be their
Vice Presidential Candidate in a post on the Election Area. The Election
Coordinator will then validate the ticket and the Candidate pair may
begin campaigning. If the Candidate does not publicly accept the
nomination by the end of the nomination period, he will be disqualified.

### Uncontested Elections {.title}

If at any time after the end of the nomination period there is only one
validated ticket, then pending any unresolved election-related disputes,
the Election Coordinator may declare an Uncontested Election.

When the Election Coordinator declares an Uncontested Election, then,
notwithstanding the rest of this Edict, the Election Coordinator shall
announce the sole ticket as the winners of the election and end the
election season.

The date of the start of the new Presidential Term, as stated in the
original Election Timetable, shall remain unchanged. The new President
will be installed on the first day of the new Presidential Term.

### Campaigns {.title}

Every person who posts on the Election Area is expected to keep their
posts to the point, truthful, and within the bounds of common courtesy.
Behavior such as, but not limited to, character attacks, inflammatory
finger-pointing, trickery, and deception will not be tolerated and may
lead to penalties at the Election Coordinator's discretion. (Example:
"Candidate X is a horrible person..." will not be tolerated. However,
"Candidate X has made several mistakes as QDir. They are..." will be
tolerated within the bounds of common courtesy). Any additional campaign
materials, including, but not limited to, candidate websites, are
required to meet the same standards as Election Area posts, regardless
of the origin of the material. The Election Coordinator is responsible
for reviewing posts and campaign materials on a regular basis and for
ruling on questionable instances as they occur.

Campaigning on the WeBB may take place on the Election Area only. Any
MOTD announcements implying support for or voicing opinions against any
specific ticket are expressly forbidden. MOTD announcements of upcoming
Election Season events and timetables are permissible provided that they
do not contain support for any ticket. Violations of these rules will
result in sanctions from the Election Coordinator, and immediate removal
of the announcement by the Internet Department or the Election
Coordinator.

All members are permitted to pose questions to the candidates after the
candidate's ticket has been validated, unless the member has been
restricted from doing so by the Election Coordinator. Questions may be
directed at some or all of the candidates, and may only be posted in the
Election Area. Candidates are not required to answer the questions.

Except as provided by this Edict, no person shall post a message on the
WeBB endorsing a Candidate. During the voting period, eligible members
may post a message in the Election Area endorsing another candidate.
Endorsements must meet the standards in this Section. No person may post
an endorsement message that implies it is also on behalf of anyone who
is the not the person posting the message.

Candidates may individually contact people to discuss the Election and
to ask for their support. In the event that the person contacted does
not wish to talk about the Election, the Candidate must refrain from
discussing it with him. At no time may any unsolicited campaign material
be sent to more than one person at a time, including using capabilities
offered by STF's software platform. Use of the BCC field in any election
related email is prohibited. Should an individual not wish to be
contacted regarding the election, he may request that the Election
Coordinator place him on a publicly accessible "do not contact" list.
All members are required to abide by this list.

Discussion in the \#star-fleet IRC channel is permissible as long as it
does not imply support for or against a specific Candidate. (Example:
"Have you read the election ship lately?" or "It sure is an interesting
election" are permissible. However, "I can't believe Candidate X said
that" or "Candidate Y sure had some good answers today" or "I think it's
clear who's winning" are not permissible). IRC quit messages are
permissible, but limited to the following format: Presidential
Candidate/Vice Presidential Candidate - "Slogan Here".

Any violation of campaigning rules will be investigated by the Election
Coordinator. The Election Coordinator must allow the accused Member the
opportunity to adequately defend himself and respond to any accusation
before levying a penalty. If it is found that a Member (Candidate or
otherwise) did violate the campaigning rules, appropriate penalties will
be given by the Election Coordinator as outlined in Section III,
regardless of the location of the violation. Campaigns may be held
liable for actions of their supporters if it can be shown that the
campaign was aware of the offending activity. An anonymous complaint
will only be investigated at the discretion of the Election Coordinator,
and no penalty may be levied based on an anonymous complaint.

### Election Area MOTD {.title}

The Election Coordinator is responsible for maintaining the Election
Area MOTD. The Election Area MOTD must contain any content requirements
as set out in Section IV.

The Election Area MOTD shall contain a toteboard containing important
administrative information about the Candidates, which shall be updated
by the Election Coordinator. At a minimum, the toteboard shall include a
list of the Candidate teams, the status of the Candidate teams,
penalties and warnings that have been issued by the Election
Coordinator, and a list of endorsements.

Candidates may provide a short summary of their platform to the Election
Coordinator. A link to the summaries shall be posted on the Election
Area MOTD after the Election Coordinator has approved them for length
and standards compliance.

### Voting {.title}

During the Voting period, campaigning continues. Voting is by secret
ballot, utilizing a method decided upon by the Election Coordinator that
allows for votes to be "locked" and has appropriate security. Every
eligible Member is eligible to vote once, except for the Election
Coordinator, who does not vote unless needed as a method of
tie-breaking, and the Assistant Election Coordinator, who does not vote
unless required to assumed the powers and duties of the Election
Coordinator. The Election Coordinator is empowered to determine how
tie-breaking votes will be handled, which must be included in the
published Election Rules.

During the Voting period, the Election Coordinator shall post a message
on the main club announcement area that voting has started and that
eligible members should have voting access. The announcement must also
state that a person who does have voting access, but believes their
alleged ineligibility is in error, should contact the Election
Coordinator.

If there are more than two Candidate teams that can be voted for, a
preliminary run-off round of voting shall be held before the final round
of voting. Only the two Candidate teams with the highest number of votes
cast for them in the run-off round of voting shall be on the ballot for
the final round of voting.

The winning Candidate team is the one with a plurality of votes in the
final (or only) round of voting, i.e., the highest number of votes.

All ballots shall be destroyed upon the deactivation of the Election
Area.

### Results {.title}

The Election Coordinator is responsible for tallying all votes cast and
announcing the results of each round publicly in Command and the
Election Area. The announced results shall include the number of votes
cast for each Candidate team.

The new President will be installed on the first day of the new
Presidential Term.

Withdrawls, Invalidations, and Disqualifications {.title}
------------------------------------------------

If a Presidential candidate or Vice-Presidential candidate withdraws
from the election at any time after his ticket has been validated, the
Election Coordinator shall invalidate the ticket. A candidate may only
withdraw by personally posting a notice to that effect in the Election
Area.

If a Vice-Presidential candidate withdraws from the election after his
ticket has been validated, but prior to the end of the nomination
period, the Presidential candidate may publically declare an eligible
member as his new Vice-Presidential candidate prior to the end of the
nomination period, at which time the Election Coordinator shall
re-validate the ticket. Otherwise, the ticket shall remain invalidated.

If a Vice-Presidential candidate withdraws from the election after the
end of the nomination period, but prior to the start of the voting
period, and the Election Coordinator decides that there are special
circumstances, the Election Coordinator may set a time period for the
Presidential candidate to publically declare an eligible member as his
new Vice-Presidential candidate, at which time the Election Coordinator
shall re-validate the ticket. Otherwise, the ticket shall remain
invalidated. The special time period must end no later than the start of
the voting period.

If a Vice-Presidential candidate has withdrawn from the election, the
Presidential candidate may not campaign until the Election Coordinator
has re-validated the ticket.

All tickets that are invalidated, nullified, or voided by the Election
Coordinator, shall be considered disqualified. No disqualified ticket
may campaign or appear on the voting ballot.

If a ticket is disqualified during the preliminary run-off vote, and
there still remains more than two valid tickets on the ballot, the
disqualified ticket shall be removed from the ballot, and all votes for
the disqualified ticket shall be reconsidered as uncast votes. If a
ticket is disqualified during the preliminary run-off vote, and there
remains only two valid tickets on the ballot, the Election Coordinator
shall end the run-off vote, and the two valid tickets shall move on to
the final voting round, as originally scheduled in the Election
Timetable.

If a ticket is disqualified during the final voting period, the Election
Coordinator shall end the vote, and follow the procedure for an
Uncontested Election.

Irregularities {.title}
--------------

In the event that the procedure outlined in this Edict is not properly
followed, the Election Coordinator may note an irregularity.

If in the judgment of the Election Coordinator the irregularity does not
violate the integrity of the election process then he must state so
publicly and provide reasoning.

If in the judgment of the Election Coordinator the procedure outlined in
this Edict may be adjusted to account for the irregularity without
violating the integrity of the election process, he must state so
publicly and explain what temporary adjustments will be made and why.

If in the judgment of the Election Coordinator the irregularity does
violate the integrity of the election process or render a fair and
honest result impossible to determine, the Election Coordinator may
declare a Irregular Election. A Irregular Election may only be declared
in extreme circumstances, upon the advise and consent of the sitting
President or senior-most member who is not a candidate in the election,
and must include a detailed explanation of why it is impossible to
recover from the irregularity.

If an Irregular Election is declared, the election is considered void.
The Election Coordinator must immediately restart the election process
with fresh nominations. The new election process will follow the same
procedure as a normal election unless explicitly stated otherwise by the
Election Coordinator. Should the new election process extend into what
would be the new Presidential term, the sitting president will remain in
office for the duration of the new election process until a new
President is installed, and the new President's term will be shortened
by the amount of overlap.

Conclusion {.title}
----------

This edict may not be amended or replaced during an election season,
except with the posted consent of the currently sitting President, Vice
President, and Election Coordinator.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](charter-eeego.htm Establishment Edict for
  l)                       Executive Government
  [Up](govtstructure.html) Oversight 
   [Next](charter-babe.htm [Home](../index.html)
  l)                        Bills And Bylaws Edict
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
