---
date: 24 July 2015
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: The Internet Department
...

The Internet Department

[Prev](charter-pd.html) 

Executive Departments and Assistants

 [Next](charter-mac.html)

* * * * *

The Internet Department {.title}
-----------------------

### *"SCSI"* {.subtitle}

### President Jack Dipper {.author}

### Internet Director Larry Garfield {.author}

**Revision History**

Revision 1

30 November 2005

Based on Edict [Dipper
\#31](http://www.star-fleet.com/prez/edicts/dipper/#e31)

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Supercedence of previous edicts](charter-id.html#idp140478693169680)

[Establishment of the Internet
Department](charter-id.html#idp140478693171584)

[Web Resources](charter-id.html#idp140478693175744)

[Exempted Sections](charter-id.html#idp140478693185696)

[Application Software](charter-id.html#idp140478693188608)

[Real-Time Chat](charter-id.html#idp140478693194320)

[E-mail Addresses](charter-id.html#idp140478693196528)

[Security](charter-id.html#idp140478693199344)

[Disputes](charter-id.html#idp140478693204224)

Supercedence of previous edicts {.title}
-------------------------------

Edicts Hughes \#30-B, Hughes \#30-C, Hughes \#30-D, Hughes \#30-E,
Hughes \#30-F, Hughes \#30-G, Hughes \#30-H, and Hughes \#30-I are
hereby rescinded and superceded by this Edict.

Edict Garfield \#21 is hereby rescinded and superceded by this Edict.

Establishment of the Internet Department {.title}
----------------------------------------

An Executive Department is hereby established under the name "Internet
Department".

The Internet Department shall be responsible for managing and
maintaining STF's real-world technology infrastructure, including but
not limited to any servers, application code, web sites, etc. It is
empowered to set and maintain policy relating to the acquisition,
development, and use of such resources in order to maintain the security
and stability of STF's technological infrastructure.

The daily activity of the Internet Department shall be overseen by the
Internet Director, who shall be appointed by the President. The Internet
Director is a cabinet position, and is equal in power to other
departmental directors and Fleet Commanders.

The Assistant Internet Director shall be appointed by the Internet
Director. The Assistant Internet Director answers directly to the
Internet Director, and is responsible for departmental decisions in the
event the Internet Director is not available. Additional
responsibilities are at the discretion of the Internet Director.

The Internet Director may delegate any of his duties enumerated in this
Edict or any other responsibilities incumbent upon him as a result of
another Edict to another named member of the Internet Department.

Web Resources {.title}
-------------

The Internet Department is responsible for maintaining STF's web site
and other web-based resources. Web resources shall include any and all
web pages, web-based applications, and any supporting resource files
(images, stylesheets, etc.). Any web resource not under the explicit
jurisdiction of another Department, Fleet, Ship, or Executive Office
shall be considered under the jurisdiction of the Internet Department.

The Internet Department may establish a common template for use on
Internet Department-controlled pages.

The Internet Department shall make available web space and an MOTD
(collectively "Section") to the head of each Department, Fleet,
registered RPG Area, and Executive Office (collectively "Maintainers")
for their use. The Internet Department may establish publicly documented
reasonable standards for such Sections in order to maintain accuracy,
site integrity and organization, security, and community standards as
defined by the STF Terms of Service or other Edicts. Any changes to such
standards must be publicly announced and a grace period given of no less
than thirty (30) days.

Maintainers may opt for one of three options for their Section.

1.  Full Control. The Maintainer is fully responsible for all content
    and design for the Section, and for any and all routine maintenance
    that is required.

2.  Content Control. The Maintainer is responsible for providing the
    content for the Section, but the Internet Department is responsible
    for the layout and presentation, and is not required to use a format
    other than the common template. Maintainers wishing an alternate
    design should request Full Control.

3.  Departmental Control. The Internet Department is responsible for
    both the content and presentation of the Section. The Internet
    Department will use the current departmental template for such
    Sections, and is not required to provide more than a general
    informational page. Maintainers wishing expanded content or an
    alternate design should request Content Control or Full Control.

The Internet Department may assume Departmental Control of any Section
whose content is more than sixty (60) days out of date and whose
Maintainer has been given at least fourteen (14) days notice. This rule
applies only to pages whose contents have been inaccurate for sixty
days, regardless of when the page was last updated.

A Maintainer may request a change of status from the Internet Department
in writing. Such requests may only be denied if the Internet Department
can show just cause why such a change would be detrimental to STF.

Maintainers are under no obligation to provide content or layout of
pages in their Sections personally, but will be held responsible for
them by the Internet Department regardless of the original author.

All content and resources required by a Section or the associated MOTD
-- including but not limited to HTML files, images, stylesheets, PHP
scripts, etc. -- must be hosted on the STF server. References to
off-site resources are forbidden in order to maintain the technical
stability of the site and to prevent the loss of information or
resources should off-site hosts become unavailable or inaccessible.

The Internet Department may remove content that is in violation of
standing policy, but must immediately notify the related Maintainer and
provide the Maintainer with a copy of the removed content. That includes
links to off-site resources not permitted under the preceeding
paragraph.

Exempted Sections {.title}
-----------------

Content on the site of specific historical value or that has special
circumstances requiring it to be exempted from the Internet
Department-established structure and organization may be declared
Exempted. Such exemptions may only be granted by the dual consent of the
Internet Director and President, and only if subjecting the content to
Internet Department regulation would violate copyright, significantly
reduce the value of the content in question, or otherwise be detrimental
to STF.

The Internet Department shall have no authority over such content,
except where necessary to avoid violations of STF, US, or international
law.

Revocation of Exempted status may only be made with the dual consent of
the Internet Director and President and with no less than ninety (90)
days notice to the recognized Maintainer of the content in question.

Application Software {.title}
--------------------

Maintainers may implement auxiliary web applications to use in their
Sections if they so choose, or to implement dynamic web pages using a
server-side technology such as PHP or Perl. Such applications may be
custom written by an STF member or a 3rd party application. However,
auxiliary web applications are subject to the following additional
restrictions:

-   The Internet Department reserves the right to audit any executable
    code intended for installation on the STF server, and to modify or
    reject it order to protect the security and integrity of the system.

-   If a 3rd party application, the application must be under an open
    source license that permits the Internet Department to audit and
    modify the code if needed.

-   If a custom application, the author grants STF a non-exclusive,
    perpetual, non-revokable license to use or alter the application in
    any way whatsoever as needed. The original author will, however,
    retain any related copyright, and STF is not given the authority to
    redistribute the application to 3rd parties unless otherwise
    specified.

-   Although the Internet Department is authorized to modify any
    application code on the server for security reasons, it must inform
    the related Maintainer that it has done so and may not modify the
    application for other reasons.

Dynamic web pages or any web pages that include executable code, such as
PHP or Perl, are considered a web application, even if the code is being
used only for easier, centralized page formatting.

Real-Time Chat {.title}
--------------

The Internet Department may establish official real-time chat venues,
such as IRC channels. The Internet Department shall have exclusive
authority over such venues, including regulation of assistant
adminstrators such as IRC "Ops". Such venues are considered public and
open to all STF members who have not been banned for specific rules
violations, however, any and all STF Terms of Service shall apply in
addition to any additional rules published by the Internet Department.

The Internet Department has no authority over chat venues created by
other STF members.

E-mail Addresses {.title}
----------------

The Internet Department shall maintain e-mail forwarders for key
government officials, directing to the personal address of the member's
choosing. "Key government officials" includes the President, Vice
President, Cabinet Officers and Executive Assistants, and their
immediate successors. Forwarders for internal departmental positions may
be created as well at the request of the Department Director.

Fully functional e-mail accounts will only be created if it can be shown
that a forwarding account is insufficient for the intended use.

The Internet Department reserves the right to rename or remove an
address upon thirty (30) days notice to the related member or
department, or immediately should the related position cease to exist.

Security {.title}
--------

All administrative passwords to official STF resources, including but
not limited to the STF server, any official chat venues, and the core
web application software, must be held at all times by the Internet
Director, President, and at least one other individual selected by the
Internet Director. That individual need not be the same person for all
passwords. At least the Internet Director and one other holder of a
given password must agree in order to change the password, and it must
then be provided immediately to all other authorized individuals.

Other government officers may request administrative access to various
STF resources if they can show that it is necessary for the performance
of their duties. The Internet Director is the final authority on who may
or may not have administrative access, and no one but the Internet
Director may authorize additional individuals to hold administrative
access for any reason. A recommendation from the President to consider a
given government officer should be given due consideration.

The Internet Director may require access to other web applications
installed on the server for security purposes.

An exception to the above rules is made during Election Season. For the
duration of Election Season, the Election Coordinator will be granted
access to any resources necessary for his position and server access
will be restricted to the Election Coordinator, Internet Director, and
President. Should in the opinion of the Election Coordinator any member,
including the President or Internet Director, be too involved in any
campaign they will be barred from administrative access for the duration
of Election Season and replaced by another member agreed upon by the
Election Coordinator and Internet Director. Preference will be given to
other non-Election-involved members of the Internet Department.

At no point may the password for any official resource be held by fewer
than three people, but should at all times be kept to a reasonable
minimum.

Disputes {.title}
--------

Unless otherwise specified, any disputes regarding access to or control
of club resources will be moderated by the Internet Director, unless the
Internet Director is a party to the dispute in which case the dispute
will be moderated by the President. The decision of either moderator
will be considered final, however, deference should be given to security
considerations except in extreme circumstances.

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](charter-pd.html)  The Personnel
  [Up](departments.html)   Department 
   [Next](charter-mac.html [Home](../index.html)
  )                         Marketing and
                           Advertising
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
