---
date: 24 July 2015
description: |
    About this book STF Executive Departments and role playing areas (ships)
    are created by Presidential Edict. These edicts serve as "charters" for
    a specific department or role playing area, and define that department's
    rules and code of conduct, what authority a given department has, that
    role playing area's unique attributes (for Alternate Role-Playing
    Areas), and various other useful and important pieces of information.
    Other edicts make clear certain aspects of STF's procedure and
    functioning in one clearly-defined place. It's not always easy to find
    which Edict applies to which department or RPG area, however. Since it
    became common practice to have one giant edict to define everything
    about a department at once rather than a series of small edicts that
    sometimes overlap it has become significantly easier to find such
    information, but it still requires knowing where to look. To make such
    legal referencing easier, the Library staff has put together this
    reference book, collecting all such information together in one
    easy-to-find place. Although effort has been taken to keep these pages
    as accurate as possible to the original edicts, sometimes minor errors
    do happen. Non-legally-binding content, such as the President's "thanks
    to everyone who worked on this" message, has sometimes also been trimmed
    for clarity. If there is any question, the original edict is always the
    legally binding version. A link to the original edict is provided with
    each charter. Each charter is listed as authored by the President who
    posted it and, if applicable, the director of the related department at
    the time the edict was made. In many cases many more people were
    involved in actually developing and writing the edict in question, but
    for simplicity (and because it is hard to keep track of everyone who
    made any contribution at all) only the "official" authors are listed.
    The original edict often includes an informal thanks to other
    contributors. The "Retired Alt-RPG Environments" section includes those
    Alt RPGs that were active but have since been retired. They are not
    currently binding, but are included here for historical reference.
generator: 'DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.76.1'
title: Major Legal Documents and Charters
...

Major Legal Documents and Charters

[Prev](../handbook/afterword.html) 

 

 [Next](govtstructure.html)

* * * * *

### The STF Librarian {.corpauthor}

**About this book**

STF Executive Departments and role playing areas (ships) are created by
Presidential Edict. These edicts serve as "charters" for a specific
department or role playing area, and define that department's rules and
code of conduct, what authority a given department has, that role
playing area's unique attributes (for Alternate Role-Playing Areas), and
various other useful and important pieces of information. Other edicts
make clear certain aspects of STF's procedure and functioning in one
clearly-defined place.

It's not always easy to find which Edict applies to which department or
RPG area, however. Since it became common practice to have one giant
edict to define everything about a department at once rather than a
series of small edicts that sometimes overlap it has become
significantly easier to find such information, but it still requires
knowing where to look.

To make such legal referencing easier, the Library staff has put
together this reference book, collecting all such information together
in one easy-to-find place. Although effort has been taken to keep these
pages as accurate as possible to the original edicts, sometimes minor
errors do happen. Non-legally-binding content, such as the President's
"thanks to everyone who worked on this" message, has sometimes also been
trimmed for clarity. If there is any question, the original edict is
always the legally binding version. A link to the original edict is
provided with each charter.

Each charter is listed as authored by the President who posted it and,
if applicable, the director of the related department at the time the
edict was made. In many cases many more people were involved in actually
developing and writing the edict in question, but for simplicity (and
because it is hard to keep track of everyone who made any contribution
at all) only the "official" authors are listed. The original edict often
includes an informal thanks to other contributors.

The "Retired Alt-RPG Environments" section includes those Alt RPGs that
were active but have since been retired. They are not currently binding,
but are included here for historical reference.

* * * * *

**Table of Contents**

[Government structure](govtstructure.html)

[Member Order and Organization](charter-moo.html)

[Government Organization](charter-go.html)

[Fleet Command and Other Mundane Matters](charter-fleets.html)

[Establishment Edict for Executive Government
Oversight](charter-eeego.html)

[Legislative Edict Governing Official Elections](charter-elections.html)

[Bills And Bylaws Edict](charter-babe.html)

[Governing Rules About Violations, Invetigations, and Tier
Sorting](charter-gravities.html)

[Bylaw On X-Fleet's Establishment and Supervision](charter-xfleet.html)

[Executive Departments and Assistants](departments.html)

[Starfleet Academy](charter-acad.html)

[The Coder](charter-code.html)

[The Engineering Department](charter-ed.html)

[The STF Librarian](charter-library.html)

[The Gamemaster Department](charter-gmd.html)

[The Personnel Department](charter-pd.html)

[The Internet Department](charter-id.html)

[Marketing and Advertising](charter-mac.html)

[Internal Department Policies](charter-deptpolicy.html)

[Alternate Role-Playing Environments](altrpgareas.html)

[SS Bonaventure](charter-bonaventure.html)

[USS Chernov](charter-chernov.html)

[USS Constellation](charter-constellation.html)

[USS Merrimack](charter-merrimack.html)

[Oed V](charter-oed_v.html)

[Retired Alternate Role-Playing Environments](oldaltrpgareas.html)

[Crell](charter-crell.html)

[Scottie Testing Centre](charter-scottie.html)

[403rd Platoon](charter-403rd.html)

[USS Ogawa](charter-ogawa.html)

* * * * *

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Prev](../handbook/after Afterword 
  word.html)               [Home](../index.html)
                            Government structure
   [Next](govtstructure.ht 
  ml)                      
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

* * * * *

Copyright © 2005-2015 STF and its Members
