---
author:
- Barret Vogtman
date: 12 August 2001
...

Abstract
========

Environment
:   Class M

Primary Species
:   Chiarosans

Natural Satelites
:   None

Artificial Satelites
:   None

Affiliation
:   None

Entry Type
:   Non-Canon

Source
:   "Section 31: Rogue" by Andy Mangels and Michael A Martin

Overview
========

Chiaros IV is listed as class M for lack of a more appropriate
classification. Because of it's natural slow spin on its axis and its
rather faster orbit around its star, half of Chiaros IV remains in
eternal daylight, while the flipside remains in eternal darkness. This
natural phenomenon has created a planet that is only habitable in a zone
of the meridian separating the day and night sides. The entire planet is
heavily coated in severe ionized storms, which make subspace
communications, scanning, and transporters, ineffective from orbit. The
only means of communication beyond the planet is through a tethered
communication dish that is held in place with the use of thrusters.

History
=======

The Geminus Gulf lay just outside the boundaries of both the Federation
and Romulan Star Empire, and has yet to come formally into the sphere of
influence of either power. The Gulf is three sectors wide. Most of its
sparse stellar population was not of the spectral types associated with
habitable worlds. Young super giant "O" type stars predominated-the sort
of suns whose huge mass blows them apart only a few hundred million
years into their life spans-rather than the cooler, more stable variety,
such as the "G" type star that sired Earth and its immediate planetary
neighbors. Nearly smack in the center of the Gulf's unexplored vastness
lay one inhabited world, the fourth planet of the politically nonaligned
Chairos system. Under recently negotiated agreements, neither the
Federation nor the Romulans could establish a permanent presence in the
Gulf until invited to do so by a space-faring civilization native to the
Gulf.
