---
author:
- Jason Lee
date: 19 April 2002
...

Quantas I
Abstract
========

Environment
:   Class L

Primary Species
:   Quasians

Natural Satelites
:   32 small moons (Varying from 32 meters in diameter to 128 meters)

Artificial Satelites
:   None

Affiliation
:   Quasians

Entry Type
:   Custom

Overview
========

The 32 small moons of Quanta are in spherical in shape and maintain
orbits in which are not very far apart. The Quasians have calculated
that these 32 moons will never crash into the planet or into each other
so long as nothing happens to them. Quanta has an approximate diameter
of 12,800 miles. The flora and fauna are primarily blue in color and
vary in size. There are a few green planets, but they are rare to find.
The planet has primarily good weather, however, there are a few bad
storms occasionally. The Quasians have discovered an alien artifact
which is lead to be the reason how the Quasians exist with 31 other
selves and 31 other planets on different dimensional levels.

The Quasian government is an orderly and organized one, consisting of 32
representatives as a collective council for their planet. These 32
representatives are usually the 32 wisest and smartest people of all
Quasians. This council is usually referred as the Quantar. Under the
council, there are 32 committees that do various administrative tasks
ordered by the council. These committees have 32 people each, and are
either hired or voted by the people into office. In the event of an
emergency or a disagreement, the 32 committees may meet, vote for one
representative for each committee and form the Quasian Council of
Agreement. The Quasian Council of Agreement is made of the 32 original
representatives plus the 32 elected representatives of committees. The
Council may include up to 32 elective representatives of the people, if
the need arises. The Quasian Council requires 2/3 in agreement of all
those present.

Quanta has many oceans, all which interconnect together. The Quasians
have cities underwater due to the fact that the land mass of the planet
is only about 32% of the planet. There are many sea creatures, including
a dolphin like creature which the Quasians refer as dophians.

History
=======

The planet's enviroment has not been altered in anyway. The Quasians do
not have a history of industrialization by using fire as a source of
power. The Quasians never had an ozone layer type problem due the fact
that they primarily use hydropower more. Many of the Quasians' battles
have occurred on or under water since the Quasians valued the parts of
land that was available. However, the Quasians have learned many useful
water technology which also made the land underwater just as valuable as
the land above water. As a result, most of the battles on Quanta have
occurred on Quanta's oceans.
