---
author:
- Alex Verdusco
date: 27 October 2001
...

Abstract
========

Environment
:   Class M

Primary Species
:   Assorted

Natural Satelites
:   None

Artificial Satelites
:   None

Affiliation
:   United Federation of Planets

Entry Type
:   Custom

Overview
========

Sisa Minor is one of only two planets in the Sisa System, which is
located only two light years from the border between the United
Federation of Planets and the Syntan Republic. The other planet, Sisa
Major, being unable to support life by a natural means, makes Sisa Minor
the only habital planet in the system. The planet has a very dry climate
characterized by extensive deserts, few surface water sources, and very
few natural occuring plants and animals. Despite its harsh environment,
the southern continent has a moderate population, consisting of mostly
traders, nomads, and others involved in illeagal activities.

The planet's main settlement, New Las Vegas, is known as one of the most
exotic and dangerous places in this part of the Federation, filled with
gambling, drinking, and a large assortment of species from all over the
galaxy. One of the most notable places in New Las Vegas is the Hotel
Capone, which is the size of a small city. It remains one of the most
popular privately held attractions in this sector, equipped with
luxuries and anemities of all sorts. Despite the presence of citizens
from all over the Federation, there is a general mistrust and hatred of
Starfleet and other Federation officials in all the settlements on the
planet. Most of the residents wish to be left alone so that they may
conduct their illegal affairs in private.

History
=======

Although Sisa is a federation planet, the United Federation of Planets
excercises a limited oversight on this region of space. There is a local
government in place, however it is plagued by corruption and suseptible
to bribery. This makes the local government hardly a match for the
dozens of illeagal operations going in and out of the Sisa System. It is
even believed by Starfleet Intelligence that recently the Sisa System is
the center of a smuggling operation between the Federation and the
Syntan Republic. Intelligence also believes a large underground black
market may exist in the bowels of New Las Vegas.
