Canon
=====

Canon entries are those entries that cover a topic defined by official
Star Trek. These are planets, species, and powers that are defined by
the producers of Star Trek and seen in the TV shows and movies, and
possibly elaborated upon by official producer-authored texts such as the
Chronology or Encyclopedia. Examples include the Klingons, the
Cardsassian Empire, Risa, and so forth.

Canon entries are, strictly speaking, "owned" by Paramount, and the STF
Reference Manual is just documenting them. The TV shows and movies are
the definitive source for these entries, not the submitter. Therefore,
Canon entries should stick to canon information only and not embellish
with material from non-canon or custom sources.

A canon entry may be updated with new information by anyone, subject to
approval by the Librarian, not just the original submitter. Credit will
be retained on the entry for all authors of all submissions, unless a
particular submitter asks to be removed.

Non-Canon
=========

Non-Canon entries are those entries that cover a topic defined by
non-canon Star Trek, that is, The Animated Series and novels. These
often show up in STF, so they are useful to have clearly referenced.
Examples include the Brikar, Caitians, Hermats, and so forth.

Non-Canon entries are, strictly speaking, "owned" by their respective
authors (authors of various novels, for instance), and the STF Reference
Manual is just documenting them. The novels in which they appear are the
definitive definitive source for these entries, not the submitter.
Therefore, Non-Canon entries should stick to non-canon information only
and not embellish with material from custom sources.

A non-canon entry may be updated with new information by anyone, subject
to approval by the Librarian, not just the original submitter. Credit
will be retained on the entry for all authors of all submissions, unless
a particular submitter asks to be removed.

Custom
======

Custom entries are those entries that cover a topic created by one or
more STFers. They are an original Trek-inspired part of the STF universe
that do not appear in canon Trek or in a Trek novel. These often show up
in STF, so they are useful to have clearly referenced. Examples include
the Crag, Flarn, New Bajor, and so forth.

Custom entries are, strictly speaking, "owned" by the STF member who
developed them. The STF Reference Manual is hosting them for reference
by the rest of STF so that others know what "Trek+" settings they may
run into. The definitive source for a Custom entry is the original
author(s) and the approved entry. Custom entries should be restricted to
Custom information only, and not be an "extension" on any particular
canon or non-canon subject.

A Custom entry may be updated only by the original author/submitter, or
the original author/submitter and someone else he chooses to bring on
board. The author/submitter may bestow ownership of the entry on another
member, removing himself, by explicitly notifying the GMDir and
Librarian by email and posting in the GMD ship to that effect.
