---
author:
- Robert Archer
date: 04 July 2015
...

Flea'Ant Erectus
Abstract
========

Government
:   Matriarchal Monarchy

Capital
:   Flea'tara

Age
:   250 years

Technological Level
:   Warp Capable

Dominant Species
:   Flea'tan

Diplomatic Status
:   Allied

Classification
:   Custom

Overview
========

The Flea'tan Alliance is relatively small, spanning only twenty large
colony systems, with a star ship navy of about 250 active vessels. In
the Flea'tan monarchy a queen is raised from within their society every
150 years. Males hold an equal standing in the navy and other jobs
however they cannot hold positions in government.

History
=======

Early 2128 - Flea'tan society achieves in-system spaceflight.

Mid 2128 - Flea'tan scientists discover an alien structure at the edge
of their solar system; research begins on new technology discovered
there.

2130 - Flea'tan scientists discover the alien structure is in fact a
means of faster than light travel that is connected to other relay 'jump
points'. They had to figure out how to get the jump points to work
though. After two months of hard work they created many compression
relay antennas that they soon expanded to work with other alien jump
points in nearby systems. Using these structures though limits their
expansion into deeper unexplored space.

2200 - The Flea'tan Alliance establishes its 5th colony outside the home
Fleatara system called Andol'tara

2239 - Males in Flea'tan society begin to push for more equality; their
struggle for equal rights would take another 120 years.

2290 - The Flea'tan Alliance establishes its 10th colony outside the
home Fleatara system called Rol'tara

2315 - Flea'tan scientists make their first major breakthrough in weapon
and shield technology in over 185 years. Weapons are based on phased and
photonic principles. Shields now form an encompassing bubble around a
vessel instead of energizing along the hull.

2320 - The Flea'tan Alliance creates a new division in their navy that
they name 'Expansion Department 7'. The division's goals are locating
new compression relay jump systems and developing new technologies.

2325 - As part of Expansion Department 7's efforts relay energy battery
cores are invented and soon stored upon all Flea'tan vessels, allowing
limited conventional warp travel of Warp 3.5, for up to three weeks
outside a relay jump system.

2350 - The Flea'tan Alliance crowns its newest Queen from the Del'eck
family tree. The 15th colony outside the home Fleatara system is named
Del'eck to commemorate the occasion.

2365 - Expansion Department 7's Commander Sal'esh Flea'tell is promoted
to First Contact Captain, the first male to hold the title. With his
duties of expanding the Flea'tan Alliance he has the added duty of being
ambassador to any outside alien races. He is given this position due to
the high risks of contact to possible alien races because of the nature
of the jump relays. With these goals in mind he renews shipbuilding
programs to bolster expansion and locate more relay jump hub systems and
hopefully fashion new technologies.

2368 - Sal'esh Flea'tell's effort at inventing new technologies bears
fruit in a highly advanced sensor system that rivals present Federation
technology by 10-15 years. In addition higher capacity relay battery
cores are invented, allowing a cruising speed of warp 4.5 and a maximum
speed of warp 6, for 12 hours for exploration purposes.

2369 - Sal'esh Flea'tell begins the first of 9 expeditions, to seek out
new resources and colonization systems for the Alliance. Each expansion
brings him increased fame and funding.

2374 - During Sal'esh Flea'tell's 5th expedition into deep space, on a
highly converted exploration vessel, Sal'esh and his team discover what
would soon become the 20th colony established by the Alliance called
Flea'tell'tara. It is named after Sal'esh's family. He becomes the first
male to have such a system named after him by the present Alliance
Queen.

Early 2386 - During Sal'esh Flea'tell's 9th expedition into deep
unexplored space he encounters the Federation science ship USS Barrett,
commanded by Andorian Captain Reen. A month after extensive cultural
exchange, official first contact overtures are extended by the
Federation. The Flea'tan's accept the offer showing interest in a
technological exchange. The Federation wish to see the Flea'tan's
advanced sensors and the Alliance wish to incorporate conventional warp
cores into their vessels. Two weeks later the USS Crusader is sent to
carry out the first meeting and technology exchange. After an exhaustive
2 months of co-operation to stop the return of the Elder race, the
mission ends in success and an official alliance between the Federation
and Flea'tan Alliance is formed. An official technological and cultural
exchange programs begin. Furthermore, the Crusader crew is heralded as
honorary Knights of the Flea'tan Alliance at the crowning of the Queen
for their efforts. Furthermore, during this time the USS Europa is sent
on a top secret mission into Flea'tan space. Their mission entails
stopping a renegade trio of Starfleet intelligence agents from Section
31, that have stolen a prototype stealth frigate equipped with advanced
weapons and an interphase cloak. After an exhaustive month of searching,
and a high pressure hide and seek game in a nearby colony system the
Europa stops the attempted attack by the rogue intel agents from
destroying the colony. As with the Crusader the entire crew is heralded
as honorary Knights of the Flea'tan Alliance. With the securing of this
technology exchange several Flea'tan Alliance engineers join the
Federation in new shipbuilding projects; similarly Federation engineers
join the Flea'tan Alliance in integrating conventional warp cores into
their ships.

Early 2387 - During these early months the USS Europa, USS Dresden and
the prototype starship NX-Memorial are sent on a top secret mission into
the areas between the Federation and Flea'tan Alliance to investigate
missing colony reports. Their investigations find that the Elder and
Ancients are waging a private war between each other, each race
attempting to gain resources and effect changes in the timeline to be
more favorable to their views. During one such investigation point the
three ships aided by several Flea'tan cruisers learn of a missing colony
where their Queen was currently visiting. Investigations reveal that the
Elder in force has attacked and was harvesting the colony. At the same
time several Ancient ships were converging for battle into the system
through the Jump Relay. In a desperate move to avoid being destroyed, to
save the colony and Flea'tan Queen and to stop further fights between
the two races, the three Federation ships, led by Captain Dvorak of the
USS Europa, formulate a plan to quickly use the three ship's tractor
beams to slam a massive rogue comet into the relay. The resulting
explosion destroys the Ancient ships, intercepting Elder ships and saves
much of the colony and Flea'tan Queen. However, from the vantage point
of the Flea'tan Alliance the three ships are seemingly destroyed as well
in the resulting explosion.
