---
author:
- Fleet Commander Krystelle Bromilow
date: 11 March 2009
...

Fleet Four
An alternative roleplaying environment is hereby established in Fleet 4
named 403rd Platoon.

403rd Platoon is a Marine RPG. It is a primarily Marine based
Roleplaying Area whereby a Specialized Marine contingent is required to
complete certain missions as a platoon where ever they are dropped. It
will consist of a Commanding Officers and Enlisted Personnel.

403rd Platoon will remain an active Roleplaying Area, provided that it
meets the following criteria:

-   403rd Platoon must maintain a healthy roleplaying environment with a
    cast of reliable players who remain on the whole within the outlined
    AWOL guidelines.

-   403rd Platoon must continue its function solely as a Marine based
    environment successfully.

If 403rd Platoon should deviate from the criteria set in this charter at
any time, it shall be decommissioned.

403rd Platoon shall have a similar command structure to a Starfleet
vessel however it shall utilize Marine Ranks, both officer and Enlisted.
The commanding officer shall be a Marine Lieutenant; executive officer
shall be a Staff Sergeant as is consistent with a standard with a
regular marine platoon. These members shall hold Member ranks of there
ship side counterparts (captain and commander respectively) and shall
count towards the CO/XO limit of the member however the characters rank
must reflect realistically the command structure of a Marine Platoon.
The bulk of the Platoons force shall be enlisted personnel performing a
variety of tasks. The Departments shall include, but are not limited to,
the following:

1.  Field Medics

2.  Assault

3.  Recon

4.  Technicians

Each of these shall be commanded by either a SNCO and staffed by
enlisted personnel primarily.

The platoon shall be split into 4 separate squads. The first shall
contain the Lieutenant, Staff Sergeant, Medic and Technician. The other
three shall be headed by a Sergeant and will consist of a force of
Privates and corporals. The CO may decide to reinforce certain squads
with other personnel or reorder the squads and their compliment
depending on the mission. Any changes made to the Platoon structure must
be reasonable and are done at the Captains discretion. Ranks specified
in this charter are only a guidline and the CO may decide to promote
personel if they have done an exceptional Job, as would be the same on a
regular ship.

The premise for each mission shall be the platoon being dropped on a
Planet or Base with a particular mission to accomplish. They then
proceed under the GM.s direction to complete their assigned objective.
It should be noted that the Platoon does not operate on a ship
environment so transport to and from each mission is via an NPC ship
that shall not be utilized within the mission itself.
