---
author:
- President Andrew Robinson
date: 13 October 2009
...

"BABE"
Supersession of Previous Edicts
===============================

Edicts Cramer \#4 and Robinson \#33 are hereby rescinded and superseded
by this edict.

Establishment
=============

A Bills and Bylaws system is hereby established as a primary tool of
clubwide governance. The Bills and Bylaws system is designed to
streamline ammendments to pillar edicts as well as ensure that those
ammendments made are undertaken with the best interests of the club
membership in mind

Bylaws
======

A Bylaw is defined as any edict which establishes clubwide policy or
governs administrative features of the club. The litmus test for
determining what constitutes a Bylaw is to decide whether or not it has
a profound and long term impact upon the club or its administration.

Bylaws shall be maintained by the STF Librarian.

The Librarian may make non-substantive changes to a Bylaw dealing with
spelling, grammar and format which do not impact the meaning,
interpretation or spirit of the bylaw. No substantive changes may be
made to a Bylaw without the issuance of a Bill by the sitting President
or acting President.

Bills
=====

A Bill is an ammendment to any Bylaw or the implementation of a new
Bylaw.

Any change determined necessary to a Bylaw must be issued by the sitting
President or acting President as a Bill. This will be presented as a
section/paragraph reference and the proposed ammendment to that section.
Any Bill must first be presented as a proposition to the Membership
within Command for discussion. When a Bill is readied for issuance, it
must be posted within the STF Command Ship under the topic "Office Of
The President". Each bill must contain the Bill number, issuing
authorities name, the date of issuance and their capacity as either
President or acting President.

Once a Bill is issued, the Librarian is required to make the ammendments
to the Bylaw within the Library. The Bill will be archived in its issued
format for reference.

Edicts
======

An Edict is a presidential tool for managing the club in its day to day
operation and includes any action not defined as either a Bill or a
Bylaw.

In order for an Edict to be legal, it must be posted within the STF
Command Ship under the topic "Office Of The President". Each Edict must
contain the Edict number, issuing authorities name, the date of issuance
and their capacity as either President or Acting President.

Edicts may not include more than a single topic base. For example,
multiple promotions may be issued within a single edict, but promotions
and establishments of new role play areas may not be included within a
single edict. Multiple disciplinary actions may be issued within a
single edict, but not disciplinary actions and promotions.
