---
author:
- Fleet Commander Therle Dregansky
date: 23 June 2005
...

Fleet One
The SS Bonaventure NCC-01 is hereby recommissioned as an alternative
role-playing area in Fleet 1. It is recommissioned as an Enterprise-Era,
Bonaventure-II Class frigate. Its missions are expected to be
predominantly exploration in nature and biased toward Enterprise-Era and
canon historical issues and plotlines, and its crew staffing is expected
to reflect the Enterprise-Era in posting, available races and tech
utilization.

If for any reason it should change her class, it must be decommissioned.

The Bonaventure is already in active service and is hereby confirmed to
be successful as an Enterprise-Era frigate. It will continue to be
judged by the following criteria:

1.  The Bonaventure must maintain an active and healthy roleplaying
    environment.

2.  The Bonaventure must continue to function as an Enterprise-Era
    frigate.

As the Bonaventure is already an established RPG Area, it will not be
required to pass a trial period. It will therefore remain a permanent
addition to Fleet 1, but if at any time it deviates from the criteria
set in this edict, it must be decommissioned.

The Bonaventure shall have a command structure similar to Enterprise-Era
vessels, including all standard departments, rank structure, and chain
of command. As such, RPG Ranks on the Bonaventure will count toward
Member Rank the same as on Standard Ships, and CO and XO positions on
the Bonaventure will count fully towards any limits in place.

There are changes to the names of the Department Heads as following:

1.  Chief Security Officer = Armory Chief

2.  Executive Officer = Executive Officer and Comm Officer

Additional Swing personnel will be possible at the CO's discretion,
including but not limited to the following:

1.  MACO (Marine Specialist)

2.  Shuttle Pilot

3.  Linguist

4.  Recreation and Morale Officer

5.  Master Mess Specialist Coordinator

The current CO and crew of the USS Bonaventure are retained in their
current positions aboard the ship. The CO may be removed at some later
date in accordance with the rules of the site, without penalty to the
Bonaventure herself.
