---
author:
- Fleet Commander Katherine Dedul
date: 31 January 2006
...

Fleet Two
The USS Constellation NCC-1017-H is hereby recommissioned as an
alternative role playing area in Fleet 2. It is to be solely a comedy
sim ship. Because of its lack of adherence to canon, and its completely
unserious characteristics, it is to be a second character only
environment.

The Constellation is allowed to change her class without being
decommissioned as an Alt RPG. She is currently in service and is herby
confirmed to be successful under the classification of a comedy sim ship
and by the following criteria:

-   The Constellation currently has a healthy roleplaying environment
    with a cast of reliable players who remain on the whole within the
    outlined AWOL guidelines.

-   The Constellation has managed to function as a comedy ship
    successfully.

The Constellation will remain a permanent addition to Fleet 2, but if at
any time she deviates from the criteria set in this edict, she must be
decommissioned.

As a comedy ship, the Constellation is not bound by established Star
Trek canon. Players may select characters, abilities, and technology
from non-canon and custom sources, with the approval of the CO. However,
these freedoms must be treated responsibly, and are allowed for the sole
reason of having fun. God characters, cast members from Star Trek canon,
and other such restricted character types are still forbidden. While a
sim may be silly and fun in any respect, it must be realistic enough to
be playable.

The Constellation shall have a similar command structure to other
Starfleet vessels, including all standard departments, rank structure,
and chain of command. As such, RPG Ranks on the Constellation will count
toward Member Rank the same as on Standard Ships, and CO and XO
positions on the Constellation will count fully towards any limits in
place.

Additional swing positions may be added under the CO's discretion,
without being limited to demands of canon positions. Examples might
include:

1.  Chief Sanitation Officer

2.  Chief of Jello Investigations

The current CO and crew of the USS Constellation are retained in their
current positions aboard the ship. The CO may be removed at some later
date in accordance with the rules of the site without penalty to the
Constellation herself.
