---
author:
- Gamemaster Director Sarah Hemenway
date: 7 June 2005
...

"OGRE"
Supercedence of previous edicts
===============================

Edict Dugan \#12 is hereby rescinded and superceded by this Edict.

Establishment of the Gamemaster Department
==========================================

The Gamemaster Department shall serve as a resource to Gamemasters, COs,
and the membership on matters relating to GMing and in-character
activity through those means deemed most expedient and useful to STF and
the membership.

The Gamemaster Department shall maintain standards of GMing by means of
the regulations set forth in this Edict and later Edicts. The Gamemaster
Department shall maintain a public record of the status of all
registered or licensed Gamemasters. A Gamemaster shall include anyone
who holds a position on a ship at that Rank or in a position containing
the term, or anyone registered to do so, and shall fall under the
jurisdiction of the Gamemaster Department.

The daily activity of the Gamemaster Department shall be overseen by the
Gamemaster Director, who shall be appointed by the President. The
Gamemaster Director is a cabinet position, and is equal in power to
other departmental directors and Fleet Commanders.

The Assistant Gamemaster Director shall be appointed by the Gamemaster
Director. The Assistant Gamemaster Director answers directly to the
Gamemaster Director, and is responsible for departmental decisions in
the event the Gamemaster Director is not available. Additional
responsibilities are at the discretion of the Gamemaster Director.

The Gamemaster Director may delegate any of his duties enumerated in
this Edict or any other responsibilities incumbent upon him as a result
of another Edict to another named member of the Gamemaster Department,
subject to the condition that the individual with final authority on the
licensing of Gamemasters must be himself a licensed Full Gamemaster,
even if that individual is the Gamemaster Director.

For the purposes of this document, a reference to a "ship" shall mean
any Role Playing Area over which the GMD has any influence or authority.

Gamemaster qualification
========================

The STF Academy shall maintain a written course and examination
pertaining to the subject of GMing. The Gamemaster Department may veto
changes to the content of the course or the appointment of a new
proctor.

All prospective Gamemasters must be members of STF for a minimum of six
(6) months, have a minimum rank of full lieutenant, pass the Gamemaster
exam according to the standards set by the Gamemaster Department, and
provide to the Gamemaster Department three (3) recommendations from
licensed Gamemasters with whom the prospective Gamemaster has served
within the last three (3) months for a minimum of one (1) month. A
recommendation from a prospective Gamemaster's CO and/or XO may be
substituted in situations where the prospective Gamemaster does not
serve with three licensed Gamemasters.

Gamemaster training
===================

A Gamemaster Mentor is an experienced Gamemaster actively assisting a
new Gamemaster through the Gamemaster Training Program. A Gamemaster
Mentor must be of Full Gamemaster standing or higher, and have served as
a Gamemaster on a Ship within the last 30 days of his appointment to a
Gamemaster Trainee.

The Gamemaster Mentor will be responsible for assisting the Gamemaster
Trainee in planning a mission as needed, for providing the Trainee with
advice and assistance as appears necessary and as is requested by the
Trainee, and for reporting back to the Gamemaster Department on the
Trainee's progress and performance when necessary. The Gamemaster Mentor
will be required to read the ship in question regularly and coordinate
with the CO as necessary.

The procedure for the Gamemaster Training Program is as follows:

1.  Once a Prospective Gamemaster has qualified for the program, he
    shall be assigned a Gamemaster Mentor by the Gamemaster Department.
    The Prospective Gamemaster may veto an appointment or request a
    specific willing Gamemaster Mentor. He is then known as a Gamemaster
    Trainee.

2.  The Gamemaster Trainee and Mentor pair are responsible for
    developing a mission plan and finding a Ship on which to train. The
    ship must be a Standard Roleplaying Area, not an Alternative Role
    Playing Area. They may request the assistance of the Gamemaster
    Department in this matter.

3.  The Gamemaster Trainee shall run his training mission, conferring
    with his Gamemaster Mentor as needed. In order to complete the
    program, the Gamemaster Trainee must run the mission to successful
    completion. He may be removed prior to the completion of the mission
    as per Section 10.

4.  The Gamemaster Mentor and CO will be required to provide preliminary
    reports to the Gamemaster Director after 90 days that will be shared
    with the Gamemaster Trainee to improve his performance. At that
    time, the Gamemaster Mentor may request a one month extension to
    continue observing and guiding the Gamemaster Trainee at his
    discretion. Such an extension must be renewed every 30 days but may
    be granted an unlimited number of times until the end of the
    mission.

5.  Within one week of the completion of the mission, the Gamemaster
    Mentor, CO, and Gamemaster Director shall confer to determine if the
    Gamemaster Trainee has performed acceptably. The Gamemaster Director
    will make the final decision. If the Gamemaster Trainee is
    determined to have performed acceptably, then he is passed from the
    program and considered a Junior Gamemaster. If not, then he is
    failed from the program.

6.  If a Gamemaster Trainee is failed from the program or removed for
    any reason before the mission is completed, he may reapply to the
    program with a new Mentor or the same Mentor after a two week
    probation period from the date of his failure or removal. If the
    Gamemaster Trainee is removed prior to the completion of the
    mission, the Gamemaster Mentor is required to step in as acting
    Gamemaster for up to two weeks until a new Gamemaster is appointed,
    who may be the Gamemaster Mentor himself.

7.  Should a Gamemaster Mentor go AWOL, resign from the club, require an
    extended LOA, or otherwise become unable to fulfill his role, the
    Gamemaster Department shall appoint a replacement subject to the
    Gamemaster Trainee's approval. The new Gamemaster Mentor will
    continue from where his predecessor left off, but must serve for at
    least sixty (60) days before he is removed, unless the mission ends
    before that time.

Gamemaster classification
=========================

For reference purposes, Gamemasters are classified based on their
experience and time served. These classifications denote recognition of
service, and are not synonymous with ranks.

After reaching a certain level of accomplishment, a Gamemaster may apply
to be recognized as having attained a higher level of classification.
The Gamemaster Department may take into account both the number of
missions completed and specific commentary about the Gamemaster's
performance when making its decision regarding recognition.

Upon the successful completion of his first training mission, a
Gamemaster will be recognized as a Junior Gamemaster.

Upon the successful completion of three (3) missions or eighteen (18)
total months as an active Gamemaster, not including the training
mission, and positive comments from the relevant COs, a Gamemaster is
eligible for Full Gamemaster Status.

Upon the successful completion of ten (10) missions or thirty-six (36)
total months as an active Gamemaster, not including the training
mission, and positive comments from the relevant COs, a Gamemaster is
eligible for Advanced Gamemaster Status.

Upon the successful completion of twenty (20) missions or sixty (60)
total months as an active Gamemaster, not including the training
mission, and positive comments from the relevant COs, a Gamemaster is
eligible for Senior Gamemaster Status.

Partial missions shall be counted if the Gamemaster in question served
as Gamemaster for at least thirty (30) days. Missions that span multiple
ships shall be counted separately for each involved ship.

Missions involving multiple Gamemasters working simultaneously shall be
counted for both Gamemasters. Time served as an active Gamemaster shall
include the time from when the Gamemaster was first licensed until the
present, discounting any period during which the Gamemaster was not
GMing for one (1) month or more.

These distinctions are primarily honorary but may be used as
qualification for other roles and activities.

Appointment of gamemasters
==========================

Prior to the commencement of each mission, the Fleet Commander of a
fleet or a subordinate of his choosing shall select a Gamemaster or
Gamemaster Trainee-Gamemaster Mentor pair who shall serve as Gamemaster
for that mission, subject to the veto of the CO of the ship in question.
Notification of this selection must be sent to the Gamemaster Department
within 24 hours of the selection, and at least 48 hours prior to the
commencement of the mission. Failure to do so shall be considered a
failure to complete a duty incumbent upon the office of the person in
question. Additional regulation of Gamemaster appointments within a
given fleet is at the discretion of the Fleet Commander.

The Gamemaster Department may recommend that a given ship host a
Gamemaster Trainee-Gamemaster Mentor pair, and the Fleet Commander or
named subordinate responsible is expected to give this request due and
fair consideration.

Mission records
===============

Upon the completion of the mission or any time that a new Gamemaster is
appointed in the middle of a mission, the Gamemaster in question must
notify the Gamemaster Department of the change or mission completion,
including the start and end dates of the mission accurate to the nearest
month. The Gamemaster Department shall maintain a publicly accessible
archive of the approximate start and end dates of all known missions,
including the Gamemaster or Gamemasters involved and the CO or COs
involved, for reference purposes.

Disciplinary action
===================

Should the Gamemaster Director receive a complaint about a Gamemaster or
have reason to believe that a Gamemaster is abusing his authority,
violating Gamemaster regulations, or otherwise acting in a manner
unbecoming an officer, the Gamemaster Director is authorized to
investigate the matter and, if necessary, take disciplinary action.

In all such cases, the Gamemaster Director must first inform the
Gamemaster in question of the potential problem. If the Gamemaster is
able to adequately explain the situation or adequately amend his
behavior, the issue is dropped. If not, or if the situation is such that
it cannot be amended after-the-fact, the Gamemaster Director may take
one or more of the following actions:

1.  Appoint a Gamemaster Observer (GMO) to the related Role Playing Area
    to monitor the situation and provide the Gamemaster Director with
    further details for a period of no longer than fourteen (14) days.
    The Gamemaster Observer may be any licensed Gamemaster of Full
    standing or higher. The Gamemaster Director may use information from
    the Gamemaster Observer to help determine what further action if any
    is necessary.

2.  Issue a citation against the Gamemaster, with statement of
    explanation, which will be permanently recorded by the Gamemaster
    Department. Such a citation may be used against the Gamemaster in
    future consideration for Classification changes.

3.  Impose a restriction against the Gamemaster for no longer than eight
    (8) months, with statement of explanation, restricting the
    Gamemaster from taking part in certain activities including, but not
    limited to, participating in Special Circumstances Missions, serving
    on more than a specified number of ships, or applying for a
    Classification change.

4.  Revoke the Gamemaster's license. The Gamemaster Director must
    include a statement of explanation, and must also specify a
    Probation Period of no less than thirty (30) days and no more than
    six (6) months, during which time the Gamemaster in question may not
    reapply for licensure.

Disciplinary action by the Gamemaster Director may be appealed to the
President.

Relicensing
===========

In the event that a Gamemaster should have his license revoked, he may
not reapply for licensure for the duration of his Probation Period.
After the Probation Period has expired, he may reapply for training
where he will be given the same consideration as any other individual.

Should the Gamemaster have held a classification higher than Junior
Gamemaster prior to the revocation of his license, he will upon the
completion of his training mission again assume the title of Junior
Gamemaster. He must then successfully complete at least one (1)
additional mission before he may apply for higher recognition. At that
point he may count all missions he has run both before and after his
delicensing, however, the Gamemaster Department may take the
Gamemaster's license revocation into account when making its
determination.

Dismissal of Gamemasters
========================

A Gamemaster may be removed prior to the completion of a mission by the
Fleet Commander or previously named subordinate should the Gamemaster
exhibit behavior ill-suited for his position, does not uphold his
responsibility of maintaining an enjoyable environment aboard his ship,
or abuses the authority of his position beyond the boundaries of STF law
and common sense. Dismissal of a Gamemaster by the Fleet Commander
himself shall be considered an act of the Fleet Commander and treated
accordingly. Dismissal of a Gamemaster by a subordinate of the Fleet
Commander shall be referred first to the Fleet Commander before further
action.

Authority and responsibility of gamemasters
===========================================

Gamemasters are responsible for providing an entertaining experience for
members of STF on the ships where they serve, and are required to work
with each ship's commanding officer to accomplish this task. In issues
pertaining to daily ship operations (i.e. promotions, demotions, logs,
message of the day [MOTD]), the Gamemaster has no authority. A CO may
grant a GM access to the ship's MOTD and/or access to add GM-controlled
characters at his discretion.

Under extreme circumstances in which one or more posts are
irreconcilable with the actions in one or more other posts; with the
laws of STF, reason, or decency; or with previously established RPG
events; a Gamemaster may declare the posts in question to be null and
void and must include a statement of explanation. Any voided post may be
appealed to the Gamemaster Director by the voided member. If the
Gamemaster is also the Gamemaster Director, it may be appealed to the
Assistant Gamemaster Director. The Gamemaster Director may overturn any
appealed post void with written statement of explanation.

Under normal circumstances, Gamemasters may not cause the death of a
character on a ship that is controlled by a member of STF. The
situations in which a Gamemaster may cause the death of a character on a
ship that is not a Non-Player Character shall consist only of the
following circumstances:

1.  AWOL. If the character has been declared AWOL, the Gamemaster may do
    whatever he likes with it, without restriction.

2.  The player gives consent to the Gamemaster, for whatever reason.

3.  If the character has taken actions that, in the opinion of the
    Gamemaster, would result in a 90% or higher probability of death, a
    "Death Notice" may be served.

    1.  For the first Death Notice issued against a character, that
        character will be warned by the Gamemaster publicly against
        taking such chances, and remind the character that the move
        would ordinarily have resulted in death, had it been real. In
        this case, the Gamemaster shall void the posts in question,
        modify the situation to reverse the extremely risky move, or
        shall otherwise modify the situation as to allow the character
        to continue to survive.

    2.  For the second Death Notice, the results shall be the same as
        for the first notice, however, there shall also be an email sent
        by the Gamemaster to the ship's CO, XO, and to the owner of the
        character, warning that the character has received two death
        notices, and that a third will result in actual character death.

    3.  For the third Death Notice, the Gamemaster shall rule the
        character has died as a result of his actions, and that
        character will be eliminated from the roster and their position.
        The CO of the ship shall have discretion as to whether to allow
        the person to create a new character on the same ship, and what
        position/rank that new character should hold on the ship.

    4.  In the event that it is the CO who is receiving Death Notices,
        the Fleet Commander shall be notified. In the event that the
        Fleet Commander receives such notices, the President shall be
        informed.

    5.  If a character has received no Death Notices in the past six
        months, but had received them prior to that six month period,
        all prior Death Notices will be erased from their record, and
        they shall have a clean slate to start from again.

    6.  If a member habitually receives Death Notices (more than 5 in a
        6 month span), they may be ruled to be a suicidal character
        player by the Gamemaster Director or by the Fleet Commander of a
        fleet in which they serve. If a member is so classified, the
        limit for character death shall be one. Members may appeal a
        declaration of suicidal-tendency to the President. Such a
        declaration shall expire six months after the last death notice
        placed against a character controlled by that player.

    7.  The Gamemaster may not intentionally place a player into a
        situation where any action (including lack of action) would
        result in a death situation. Unlike the real world, there must
        be at least one morally acceptable way to get out. Violation of
        subsection g) is the only acceptable grounds for overturning the
        Gamemaster's ruling of a "death notice".

    8.  Any Death Notices may be appealed to the Gamemaster Director by
        the member receiving the Notice. If the Gamemaster is also the
        Gamemaster Director, it may be appealed to the Assistant
        Gamemaster Director.

The Gamemaster Director may overturn any appealed Death Notice with
written statement of explanation.

Mission types
=============

A normal mission is one in which a single Gamemaster who is not the CO
of the ship in question serves on a single ship for a single mission. A
Gamemaster may serve on multiple ships in different, unrelated missions
simultaneously. All other types of missions are classified as Special
Circumstances. All Gamemasters participating in a Special Circumstances
mission must be of Full Gamemaster standing or higher.

Prior to the commencement of a Special Circumstances mission, all
involved Gamemasters must obtain the consent of all related COs and all
related Fleet Commanders, and must notify the Gamemaster Department
prior to the start of the mission. In the event that the Fleet Commander
or CO is one of the Gamemasters in question, the permission of the
Gamemaster Director shall be required. In the event that the Fleet
Commander is also the Gamemaster Director, the CO is also the Fleet
Commander, or the CO is also the Gamemaster Director, the approval of
the President shall be required. Special Circumstances missions must be
approved on a mission-by-mission basis. Additional requirements for
Special Circumstances missions are as follows:

-   A Multi-Ship Mission is one in which one or more Gamemasters runs a
    mission that explicitly spans multiple ships simultaneously. In
    addition to the standard requirements of Special Circumstances
    missions, should there be three or more ships involved the
    Gamemasters in question must notify the President prior to the start
    of the mission.

-   A Self-RPG Mission is one in which there is no explicit Gamemaster.
    Instead, all members of the crew have equal control over the
    storyline. In order for a ship to be considered for Self-RPG status,
    the ship's CO must provide viable reasons why his ship is suited for
    self-RPG status. He must also provide proof that guidelines are in
    place maintain a pleasant role-playing atmosphere. The petition will
    be granted with unanimous approval from the Gamemaster Director,
    appropriate Fleet Commander, and ship's CO. The CO shall be required
    to report to the Gamemaster Department in place of a normal
    Gamemaster, but will not have the full authority of a Gamemaster.

-   A CO/GM Mission is one in which the CO of the ship also serves as
    the Gamemaster of the ship. A CO may serve as Gamemaster of his own
    ship only with the prior consent of the Gamemaster Director and
    Fleet Commander. The CO must still be a Gamemaster of Full or higher
    standing. In the event that the Fleet Commander is also the
    Gamemaster Director, the CO is also the Fleet Commander, or the CO
    is also the Gamemaster Director, the approval of the President shall
    be required.

-   A Multi-Gamemaster Mission is one in which two or more Gamemasters
    jointly serve on the same ship at the same time. The Gamemaster
    Director must approve all Multi-Gamemaster Missions prior to their
    commencement. In the event that the Gamemaster Director is one of
    the Gamemasters involved or the CO involved, the approval of the
    President shall be required.

If there is a question as to whether or not a mission should be
considered Special Circumstances, the Gamemaster Director is empowered
to make a determination on a case-by-case basis.

Disputes
========

Should any member have a dispute with the actions of a Gamemaster, the
member is expected to first address the matter to the Gamemaster in
question. If the situation can be resolved, the matter is considered
closed. In case of an impass, any of the involved parties may refer the
matter to the next highest authority who is not already a party to the
dispute for moderation. For the purposes of this edict, the chain of
authority shall be the member, Gamemaster, Fleet Commander or designated
subordinate, Gamemaster Director, Assistant Gamemaster Director, and
finally the President. Only the Gamemaster Director, Assistant
Gamemaster Director, or President may forcibly overturn a decision of a
Gamemaster and a decision of one of those parties shall be considered
final.

Implementation
==============

Any Gamemaster Trainee currently running a training mission shall
complete their training under the old program as described in Edict
Dugan \#12. Any Gamemaster Trainee who begins a training mission after
the date of this Edict will be bound by the new system.
