---
author:
- Marketing and Advertising Coordinator Jim Hosick
date: 05 May 2007
...

"MAC"
Establishment of the Marketing and Advertising Coordinator
==========================================================

An Executive Assistant position is hereby created known as Marketing and
Advertising Coordinator (or "MAC").

The Assistant Marketing and Advertising Coordinator shall be appointed
by the Marketing and Advertising Coordinator. The Assistant Marketing
and Advertising Coordinator answers directly to the Marketing and
Advertising Coordinator, and the position serves primarily as a
"training" roll. Additional responsibilities are at the discretion of
the Marketing and Advertising Coordinator.

The Marketing and Advertising Coordinator is responsible for
establishing and maintaining STF's online presences in order to ensure
the club's continued health in the online role-playing community. He
functions as the President's representative in external matters relating
to the status of the club within the role-playing community.

The Responsibilities of the Marketing and Advertising Coordinator
=================================================================

The Marketing and Advertising Coordinator shall be tasked with such
duties as, but not limited to:

-   Monitoring and improving STF's position on search engines.

-   Analyzing the online role-playing community that STF is a part of.

-   Researching, approaching appropriate clubs for, and maintaining
    banner exchanges and joint advertising endeavors

-   Maintaining a list of contacts within the online role-playing
    community.

-   Establishing a point of contact for those seeking information about
    the club.

-   Creating and maintaining a set of introductory reference materials
    about the club to be provided to interested parties. These materials
    will contain brief information regarding the club and provide a
    guide to other, more detailed information.

-   Investigating ways to continually improve STF's presence.

-   Providing monthly reports regarding STF's status and the MAC's
    activities.

Any formal agreement with another club or organization must be entered
into Edict by the President, in coordination with the Marketing and
Advertising Coordinator. This power may not be delegated to any
individual for any reason. The Marketing and Advertising Coordinator may
require the services of any other Executive Department or Executive
Assistant in order to accomplish his responsibilities. The President may
delegate any additional duties or projects to the Marketing and
Advertising Coordinator, but only as required for the advancement and
maintenance of the club's position in the role-playing community.
