---
author:
- President Andrew Robinson
date: 1 April 2007
...

"MOO"
Supersession Of Previous Edicts
===============================

Edicts Hemenway \#34, Robinson \#49 and Robinson \#64 are hereby
rescinded and superseded by this Edict.

Membership
==========

A Member is defined as any person holding an active STF account and at
least one of the following; a governmental position, an active
roleplaying character, a gamemaster position. These must be held for no
less than 30 days to qualify as a Member.

Club rank structure
===================

The club rank structure (for out of character usage) of STF is defined
as, from junior to senior: Cadet/Ensign, Lieutenant junior grade,
Lieutenant, Lieutenant Commander, Commander, Captain, Fleet Captain,
Commodore, Rear Admiral, Vice Admiral and Admiral. Cadet and Ensign are
equivalent for the purposes of club rank.

A Member's club rank, below the rank of Captain, is defined as the
highest role-playing rank that a Member has achieved since he joined
STF. Club rank at and above the rank of Captain is determined by the
most recent Presidential Edict. A Member at or above the rank of Captain
may be recognized for exemplary role-playing and service to the club by
promotion by the President in an Edict to the next highest club rank.

Character rank is defined as the rank that a Member's individual
role-playing character has attained. The rank structure for character
rank is, from junior to senior:

Civilian
Crewman
Cadet
Ensign
Lieutenant Junior Grade
Lieutenant
Lieutenant Commander
Commander
Captain
Fleet Captain
Commodore
Rear Admiral
Vice Admiral
Admiral
Alternate Role-playing Areas may have a different character rank system.
No Member shall have a character with a character rank higher than the
Member's club rank.

A Marine rank structure exists within STF and follows that of the United
States Marine Corp as follows, junior to senior

Enlisted:

Private First Class
Lance Corporal
Corporal
Sergeant
Staff Sergeant
Gunnery Sergeant
Master Sergeant
Sergeant Major
Warrant Officer
Chief Warrant Officer
Officer:

Second Lieutenant
First Lieutenant
Captain
Major
Lieutenant Colonel
Colonel
Brigadier General
Major General
Lieutenant General
General
Each marine officer rank has an equivalent within the regular fleet. No
member may hold a marine character with a rank higher than their club
member rank.

Absence from the club
=====================

A Member is determined to be Absent without Leave (AWOL) if he is not
within the defined AWOL limits for his club position. A Member who has a
club rank of Captain or above may be subject to a club rank penalty for
AWOL; each case will be considered individually by the President.

A Member is entitled to take a Leave of Absence (LOA) if they are unable
to post within the defined AWOL limits for his club positions. A Leave
of Absence is defined as any period of declared leave from club posting
duties that is less than thirty days. Any LOA for a period of less than
30 days will have no effect on an individual's positions; however,
multiple LOAs within a short time scale by a Commanding Officer or an
Executive Officer may result in the removal of an individual with the
approval of the Fleet Commander and the President. The individual's
removal from department head and junior officer positions is at the
discretion of the appropriate ship's Commanding Officer.

Any leave of absence of 30 days and beyond is considered to be an
Extended Leave of Absence (eLOA). Any leave of absence with an
unspecified end date is considered to be an Indefinite Leave of Absence
(iLOA). Any individual taking an eLOA or an iLOA understands that no
position they hold is guaranteed to remain open for when they return to
the club. This covers any position including that of a Commanding
Officer (CO) and government positions. This ruling is not absolute and
will not cover any individual arrangements that may be subject to
approval by either the Fleet Commander or President.

Promotions Guidelines
=====================

For exceptional service to the club at large a member may be promoted
beyond the rank of Captain by Presidential Edict. Promotions beyond the
rank of Captain should be considered using the following guidelines as a
benchmark:

Fleet Captain (Flt Capt): For exceptional service to the club, the
President can promote members beyond the rank of Captain. Fleet Captain
is a mark of commitment or contribution to the club above and beyond the
usual requirements.

Commodore (Cdre): Somewhat Rare, Commodore is a promotion usually given
to those who have not only made exceptional commitments to the club
above and beyond that which is required, but have done so consistently
over a number of years. This is considered the first of the 'Flag Ranks'

Rear Admiral (RAdm): Rare. Rear Admiral is a promotion given to those
who have not only made exceptional commitments to the club above and
beyond that which is required for a number of years, but have also had a
permanent and lasting impact in developing the club through government
work in Fleets or Departments.

Vice Admiral (VAdm): Very Rare. Vice Admiral is a promotion given to
those who have made exceptional, lasting and long term impacts on the
way in which the club operates and functions. Usually given to those
members who have served as President at least once and have a long
history of government work developing new procedures and working
tirelessly to develop the best procedures and policies for any
Department or Fleet that they turn their hand to.

Admiral (Adm): Ultra Rare. The highest member rank achievable in the
club, Admiral is given by the President to those rare few members who
have given their all for many years and have had a significant lasting
impact on the club in terms of its development through government and
technology as well as a profound impact on how we function and operate
through the implementation of long lasting changes that revolutionise
the Government, the platform on which we operate or the Presidency.

Promotions Limits
=================

A member may receive by Presidential Edict only single-step promotions
in Member Rank. Upon receiving a promotion in this manner, the member
becomes ineligible for further Member Rank promotion in the same manner
for a period of eight months.
