---
author:
- Fleet Commander Symon Silvester
date: 21 January 2006
...

Fleet One
The USS Ogawa NCC-64284 is hereby recommissioned as an alternative role
playing area in Fleet 1. It is to be solely a medical/hospital ship,
McCoy-class medical frigate. Its missions are expected to be
predominantly medical in nature and biased toward medical issues and
plotlines, and its crew staffing is expected to be biased toward the
Medical department.

If for any reason it should change her class from a medical frigate, it
must be decommissioned.

The USS Ogawa is already in active service and is hereby confirmed to be
successful as a medical frigate. It will continue to be judged by the
following criteria:

-   The Ogawa must maintain an active and healthy roleplaying
    environment.

-   The Ogawa must continue to function as a medical frigate.

As the Ogawa is already an established RPG Area, it will not be required
to pass a trial period. It will therefore remain a permanent addition to
Fleet 1, but if at any time it deviates from the criteria set in this
edict, it must be decommissioned.

The Ogawa shall have a similar command structure to other Starfleet
vessels, including all standard departments, rank structure, and chain
of command. As such, RPG Ranks on the Ogawa will count toward Member
Rank the same as on Standard Ships, and CO and XO positions on the Ogawa
will count fully towards any limits in place.

Additional Swing personnel will be possible at the CO's discretion,
including but not limited to the following:

1.  Nurse

2.  Medic

3.  Forensic Pathologist

4.  Medical Examiner

The current CO and crew of the USS Ogawa are retained in their current
positions aboard the ship. The CO may be removed at some later date in
accordance with the rules of the site, without penalty to the Ogawa
herself.
