About this book
===============

STF Executive Departments and role playing areas (ships) are created by
Presidential Edict. These edicts serve as "charters" for a specific
department or role playing area, and define that department's rules and
code of condult, what authority a given department has, that role
playing area's unique attributes (for Alternate Role-Playing Areas), and
various other useful and important pieces of information. Other edicts
make clear certain aspects of STF's procedure and functioning in one
clearly-defined place.

It's not always easy to find which Edict applies to which department or
RPG area, however. Since it became common practice to have one giant
edict to define everything about a department at once rather than a
series of small edicts that sometimes overlap it has become
significantly easier to find such information, but it still requires
knowing where to look.

To make such legal referencing easier, the Library staff has put
together this reference book, collecting all such information together
in one easy-to-find place. Although effort has been taken to keep these
pages as accurate as possible to the original edicts, sometimes minor
errors do happen. Non-legally-binding content, such as the President's
"thanks to everyone who worked on this" message, has sometimes also been
trimmed for clarity. If there is any question, the original edict is
always the legally binding version. A link to the original edict is
provided with each charter.

Each charter is listed as authored by the President who posted it and,
if applicable, the director of the related department at the time the
edict was made. In many cases many more people were involved in actually
developing and writing the edict in question, but for simplicity (and
because it is hard to keep track of everyone who made any contribution
at all) only the "official" authors are listed. The original edict often
includes an informal thanks to other contributors.
