---
author:
- Jason Lee
date: 30 November 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Acamar III

Height (Average)
:   1.8 meters (6')

Weight (Average)
:   72 kg (160 lbs)

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   The Vengence Factor (TNG)

Found in Starfleet
:   Unlikely

Overview
========

The Acamarians appear to be exactly like humans with the exception of a
facial cleft in their foreheads. They are also known to have decorative
facial tattooing. The Acamarians blood is unique, composed of an iron
and copper composite. This allowed Dr. Beverley Crusher of the USS
Enterprise-D to easily identify a blood sample she discovered on away
team mission.

History
=======

Centuries ago, the Acamarians were a savage and violent race due to the
fact that they were split into social and political clans. These clans
were the primary cause of many blood feuds and hatred among the race
that often lasted for generations. There was one such violent feud
between the Lornaks and Tralestas that lasted three centuries which
ended when the last Tralesta died. However, there were three survivors
of the Tralesta clan that survived the massacred in 2286 by the Lornak
clan. These three members hide their identities well and choose one of
these remaining members to extract revenge on the Lornak clan. A young
girl named Yuta was chosen to be the assassin for clan Tralesta. (See
below for more information about Yuta.)

About one century ago, the Acamarians ended all blood feuds. A group
left to become interstellar marauders and called themselves the
Gatherers when all the blood feuds were ended. Since then, the
Acamarians have enjoyed a century of peace. However, the Gatherers have
been the only disruption of peace for the Acamarians. The Gatherers are
responsible of many raids in neighboring outposts and sectors around the
Acamar system. Captain Picard went to visit the Acamar system on
Stardate 43421.9 (in the year 2366) in an effort to stop Gatherer raids
with Sovereign Marouk, the head of the Acamarian government at that
time.

Sovereign Marouk brought aboard two aides on to the Enterprise. One of
these was a chef and food taster that happens to be Yuta. She appeared
to be a woman in her late twenties; however her body had been altered to
dramatically reduce her rate of aging so that she could exact revenge
against the Lornak clan. Her body was infused with a genetically
engineered microvirus that was harmless to all except members of the
Lornak clan. But that was not discovered by the Enterprise crew, and
this microvirus did not pick up on the Enterprise's transporter filter
or scanners. Because she appeared to be in her late twenties, Commander
Riker developed a romantic interest in Yuta.

The Enterprise had set a course for the Hromi Cluster, a stellar group,
where it was believed a Gatherer base camp might be located. At the
time, it was an uncharted area to the Federation, despite it was near
the Acamar system. This cluster is home to many systems and planets,
including Gamma Hromi II. Gamma Hromi II is where Captain Picard met
Brull, a Gatherer pack leader. Sovereign Marouk and Captain Picard were
able to convince Brull to allow Sovereign Marouk and Captain Picard to
talk to the leader of the Gatherers, Chorgan. Brull gave the Enterprise
the coordinates to the ship where Chorgan was on. Shortly after Brull
agreed, an elderly Gather named Volnoth died. Dr. Crusher appeared on
the scene to investigate and to see if anything could be done for the
elderly Gatherer. Volnoth was a member of the clan Lornak. Dr. Crusher
discovered that he died of cardiac arrest. However, Dr. Crusher was
unsure of the cause of the death, because his cardiac muscle was still
strong based on her tricorder readings. Volnoth's body, along with
Brull, Sovereign Marouk and the rest of the away team were brought back
up to the Enterprise.

On the way Chorgan's hideout, Commander Riker visits Yuta in her
personal guest quarters, who says that she wants freedom but is already
on a set path that she can not stray from. Adding to Yuta's mystery,
Riker learns that she serves Marouk not by command, but by choice.

Meanwhile, Dr. Crusher discovers in sickbay a microvirus in Volnoth's
body. The tricorder scan had almost missed the microvirus. She called
Commander Riker about the microvirus, describing it as a specific
microvirus designed to kill one in one millionth of an Acamarian. Due to
Dr. Crusher's searching through the Acamar medical database, she
discovered that a Gatherer named Penthor-Mul died of the same microvirus
53 years ago.

When the Enterprise arrived at the designated coordinates, Chorgan was
unwilling to listen or answer any hails. The Enterprise launched a minor
attack on Chorgan's ship, just enough to disable the shields. Captain
Picard, Sovereign Marouk, Brull, and Yuta then beamed over to Chorgan's
ship to discuss an end to all the hostilities of the Gatherers. On the
Bridge of the Enterprise, a discovery of a photo in the databanks of the
Acamarians allowed Dr. Crusher, Lt. Commander Data and Commander Riker
to linked Yuta to the murder of Volnoth and Penthor-Mul. Another quick
search by Data found that Chorgan was the remaining member of the clan
Lornak. Upon this discovery, Commander Riker had to unfortunately kill
her to prevent her from assassinating Chorgan. This was very difficult
for Commander Riker; however Yuta did not stop when Riker asked. The
conference ended successfully, despite the attempted assassination of
Chorgan, which the Gatherers were given some land on Acamar to start a
new life and end their wandering.
