---
author:
- 'Mike Rouse-Deane'
date: 25 March 2002
...

RACE\_SCI\_NAME
Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Denev IV

Height (Average)
:   6' 2"

Weight (Average)
:   170 lbs

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   "Encounter at Farpoint" (TNG)

Found in Starfleet
:   Unlikely

Overview
========

An ancient race of humanoids from Bajor III. The Bajorans had a thriving
primitive culture in the arts and sciences 25,000 years ago. They slowly
developed space travel and colonized their system and several nearby
star systems. Almost identical to Terrans except for distintive nose
ridges and minor differences in the female reproductive system. The
Bajoran race was conquered by the Cardassian Empire in 2328 and formally
annexed 2339. Bajoran freedom fighters repulsed the Cardassians in early
2369. Soon afterwards the Bajoran wormhole was discovered in the
Denorious Belt. With the enormous economic boon of the only known stable
wormhole, the rebuiliding of Bajor has been accellerated.

Bajoran culture flourished a half-million years ago, when humans on
Earth were not yet standing erect. The Bajoran people are deeply
spiritual, but their history also recorded many great architects,
artists, builders, and philosophers. Bajoran culture declined seriously
during decades of Cardassian occupation in the 24th century, during
which most Bajorans were driven from their homeworld. Bajorans traveled
in space at least eight centuries ago, using Bajoran solar-sail vessels
to explore their star system. Some ancient Bajoran space travelers even
made it all the way to Cardassia.

As recently as the 22nd century, Bajoran society was strictly divided
into D'jarras, or castes. A family's D'jarra determined its status in
society, as well as what occupation its workers could hold. Under
Bajoran custom, a person's family name is first, followed by the given
name. Most Bajorans wear an ornamental earring, a symbol of their
spiritual devotion. Bajoran women carry their children for less than
five months. Because they have a relatively short gestation period, they
vascularize very quickly. Mother and child form a complex
interconnecting network of blood vessels. Bajoran women often have fits
of uncontrollable sneezing while pregnant. In Bajoran childbirth,
relaxation of the mother is essential. Participants at the birthing
ceremony play rhythmic instruments to help her reach a fully relaxed
state. When the child arrives, all present verbally welcome the child
into the world.

Bajorans can usually be seen wearing an earing on one of their ears.
This wearing of silver earrings is a direct link to the belief in the
Pagh, or life force, that can be sensed by the Monks through the ear.
Many scientists have taken to not wearing an earring in a break from
traditions, they have developed doubts in the Pagh belief even though
its predictions are very accurate most of the time. Every Bajoran
wearing an earring has a unique design that can link it to the person.
Often a characteristic effect or insignia is carried down through the
generations of a family. Bajorans are a deeply religious people and
somewhat hardened by their experience with the Cardassians. They appear
human except for a few ridges on the bridge of their nose.

Nearly a century ago, in 2328, the aggressive militaristic race of the
Cardassians arrived, saying they wanted to help the native populace.
There followed years of Military Occupation and slavery for the
Bajorans, in which well over 10 Million Bajorans were killed. The
religion became their saviour, uniting them against their enemy. Very
quickly, small cells of resistance fighters appeared to strike back at
the oppressors. Eventually the Cardassians withdrew but most of Bajor's
mineral wealth had already been depleted.

Very soon after the Cardassians left, polluting the wells and destroying
homes and even the sacred temples in the process, the Bajoran
factionalised and started to squabble over who would lead the free
Bajor. The Provisional Government was formed from the chaos and asked
the United Federation of Planets to send assistance, giving them the old
Cardassian Mining Station in orbit as a base. The base, called Terok Nor
by the Cardassians, was named Deep Space Nine by the Federation and
Cmdr. Benjamin Sisko sent to command it.

As the prophesied Emissary, he was instrumental in the discovery of the
Wormhole, or more properly referred to as the Celestial Temple of the
Prophets. The role of Cmdr Sisko was to protect Bajor and the wormhole
from the continuing actions of the Cardassians, and also prepare Bajor
for fully joining the UFP.

A deeply religious people, Bajorans look to their spiritual leader, the
Kai, for leadership and guidance. The Bajoran religious faith was a
powerful force in their society, and helped give the Bajoran people the
spiritual strength to survive the brutal Cardassian oppression. The
Bajoran religion believes that ships are safely guided through the
wormhole by the Prophets and that the Celestial Temple dwells within the
passage. Some conservative Bajoran religious leaders, notably Winn,
tried to suppress scientific theories of the wormhole's creation,
believing that the teaching of science lessened the religious leaders'
political power.

Traditional Bajoran childbirth requires the mother to achieve a
completely relaxed state through breathing exercises, ritual music and
incense. This usually takes about an hour and any men in attendance wear
knotted neck scarves. The child is born into the world with the
following greeting: "Awake child, we await you with love and welcome you
into the world."

Religion
--------

The Kai's are the highest ranking religious figure on Bajor, selected
from the Vedek Assembly from its members on the death of the previous
holder. Such is Kai Winn, who was elected such a figure after First
Minister Kalem Opren died. However, in 2375, she turned to the side of
the Pah-wraith's, trying to release them from the fire caves, as her
hatred of the Emissary being a non-Bajoran grew inside. However, Kai
Winn died in the fire caves, along with Benjamin Sisko and Gul Dukat.
Only 112 Vedeks exist at any one point in time, these positions are also
selected by the Vedek Assembly.

The Prophets are the central figures of the Bajoran faith, transcendent
entities who exist in a non-linear time frame. Bajoran faith believes
the Prophets to be the embodiment of truth, who reveals their wisdom
through visions given by the Orbs. The Prophets are also the ones who
replenish the life force of Bajorans, the pagh that allows existence.
Bajorans believe that the pagh is a spiritual force inherent to all
sentient beings and that the Prophets replenish the pagh of the living
from the Celestial Temple.

With every good side, there is always an evil side, and in the Bajoran
religion they are called the Pah-wraiths. The Pah-wraith's once resided
in the Celestrial Temple, until they were exposed as false prophets and
were banished to the fire caves, though some remain in ornaments and
tablets, such as the tablet smashed by Benjamin Sisko on Deep Space
Nine, which released both a Prophet and a Pah-wraith. The ceremony was
classed as the Reckoning, in which the Prophet and Pah-wraith would
battle each other. However, the ceremony was stopped by Kai Winn, before
it was resolved and so the Prophet's stated that a terrible event would
occur. The Pah-wraith's vision was to take the celestrial temple from
the Prophet's, unfortunately, during the final battle in the fire caves,
in which Kai Winn and Gul Dukat, who was possessed by a Pah-wraith,
battled with Benjamin Sisko, who himself was a prophet, they both dove
into the fires and stopped the Pah-wraith's entry into the celestrial
temple and allowed Bajor to live peacefully again.

The Orbs (Tears of the Prophets) are approximately 10,000 years old. The
first Orb, with eight others to follow, appeared in the skies of Bajor.
Taken as a gift from the Prophets to endow their followers with wisdom
and insight, the Orbs were traditionally housed in sacred shrines at
temples and monasteries around Bajor. Each Orb has a different function.
After the Occupation, only one from the original nine Orbs remained.
Through the years, three have been recovered and are currently in the
hands of the Bajoran people. A fifth, unknown, orb was discovered by
Captain Benjamin Sisko in 2375.

The Emissary is the title given to the person who would discover the
Celestial Temple and speak with the Prophets, then unify the Bajoran
people. Commander Benjamin Sisko was announced as the Emissary by Kai
Opaka when he had just arrived at the Station. Akorem Laan briefly
succeeded Sisko as the Emissary in 2372 when Laan was transported two
centuries after his times into the 24nd century by the Prophets. After
reinstating the unpopular D'jarra caste system, Sisko challenged Akorem
for the title of Emissary, and was ultimately vindicated by the Prophets
themselves. Captain Sisko would firmly establish himself as the Emissary
of Bajor after the Laan incident.

History
=======

500 millennia ago Bajor was already a flourishing civilization,
culturally rich and technologically advanced. Their faith gave the
people the peace and harmony of life while fostering the philosophers,
architects, and builders that are the pride of Bajoran culture.

10,000 years ago, the first of nine Orbs fell from the sky, and the
present Bajoran faith was founded on the wisdom imparted from
Orb-generated visions. In between these ancient times and the 22nd
century, Bajoran explorers would travel through near-space with their
tachyon accelerated space vessels, coming in contact with nearby
Cardassia, whose people were then as peaceful and religious as
themselves.

Thousands of years passed. Cardassia Prime became a starved planet that
was beset by problems caused by its lack of natural resources. When the
military, sickened by the weakness of its civilian government, seized
control of the state, they believed that only expansion will allow
Cardassians to survive. Ruthless conquest of nearby systems followed,
and the Empire lost no time in plotting to annex neighboring Bajor.

The Bajoran faith could not have prepare them for the superior military
forces of Cardassia, and the planet fell to Cardassian forces in 2328.
During the years of Cardassian Occupation, which spanned from its formal
annexation in 2339 to the withdrawal in 2369, 10 million Bajorans were
killed and many times more forced into slave labor in mines and labor
camps by the Cardassian occupational government. In 2351 the Cardassians
built the mining station Terok Nor in the orbit of Bajor to process
minerals from the surface and prepare them for transport.

Throughout the 30 years of the Occupation, the underground resistance
relentlessly bombed and sabotaged Cardassia's organized government,
knowing full well the Cardassians would retaliate with three times the
ferocity. Resistance cells such as the Shakaar, the Higa Metar, the
Khon-Ma and the Ornathia cells engaged the Cardassians in guerrilla
warfare in the mountains of Bajor, and despite their vastly inferior
numbers, somehow always managed to escape Cardassian pursuit. Though
millions died during the Occupation, the violent opposition to
Cardassian rule finally made the decision-makers back on Cardassia Prime
change their stance on Bajor.

In 2369, the Bajor-Cardassia Armistice was signed, and Cardassian
Supreme Directive 26/45 issued, which provided for the full retreat of
Cardassian presence from Bajor. After some initial chaos and anarchy,
the newly erected Bajoran Provisional Government signed the Ilvian
Proclamation that exiled all and any person who had collaborated with
the Occupation's Cardassian forces.

Though free at last from the authoritarian rule of Cardassia, the world
of Bajor was left shattered. Defenseless and struggling to recover from
the decades of war and deprivation, the Bajoran provisional government
requested the Federation to administer to the operations of Terok Nor,
abandoned after the hasty withdrawal. Designated as space station Deep
Space Nine by Starfleet, Commander Benjamin Sisko arrived on board with
his senior officers to help oversee the rebuilding of Bajor and restore
the station to working order. Cardassian policy dictates that anything
of value which cannot be taken must be sabotaged or rendered useless and
Terok Nor was accordingly trashed by the Cardassians before they left it
to the Bajorans.

Shortly after Sisko's arrival on Deep Space Nine, Kai Opaka announced
that he was the long-awaited Emissary. Though quietly skeptical of the
whole idea about being a religious icon, Sisko consequently did go on to
discover the wormhole and later spoke with the alien entities Bajorans
believe to be their Prophets. On a visit to the Gamma Quadrant, Kai
Opaka was trapped, and when no trace of her was found, presumed dead.
The ensuing race for the position of Kai divided the Bajoran people,
with Vedek Winn eventually winning when Vedek Bareil withdrew from the
race.

Civil unrest escalated in 2370, instigated by The Alliance for Global
Unity, otherwise known as the Circle. Their activities climaxed when
they besieged the Provisional Government and Deep Space Nine. However,
it was the highly popular Minister Jarro Essa who had engineered the
coup, using the Circle as a front for his designs to eliminate the weak
Provisional Government and build a new, stronger Bajor. Jarro had been
an outspoken opponent of the Cardassians during the Occupation and
equally opposed to the Federation presence on Deep Space Nine. He
convinced more than a few Bajoran militia officials to support his cause
and lend their military power in the uprising. When Jarro's connection
with the Cardassian government was exposed, however, his plans were
thwarted and he went into hiding from shame and public outrage over his
hypocrisy. Li Nalas, who was liberated from a Cardassian POW camp on
Cardassia IV not long before the failed coup, died in the crossfire
protecting Commander Sisko during phaser fire on Deep Space Nine.

Towards the middle of 2370, several million Skreens from the Gamma
Quadrant applied for asylum on Bajor, believing it to be their promised
land. The Provisional Government decided against having to support so
many refugees when the planet was still recovering from the Occupation.
The Federation facilitated the Skreen exodus by transporting them to a
suitable M Class planet to begin colonization.

Bajoran colonists on New Bajor fell victim to Dominion forces at the end
of the year, their lives and presence eliminated from the colony they
had only recently populated. The Dominion clearly showed their
intolerance of an incursion into their territory, and as a show of
force, easily destroyed the U.S.S. Odyssey, which was on a mission to
the Gamma Quadrant to retrieve Cmdr. Sisko, Jake, Quark, and Nog.

The Dominion threat prompted Starfleet to deploy the warship U.S.S.
Defiant to Deep Space Nine the following year, serving to protect the
station as well as Bajor from seemingly imminent invasions. Bajor and
Cardassia formally signed a peace treaty in 2371, ending years of
hostility and opening a new chapter in bilateral relations. Exchange of
Ambassadors, return of the stolen Orbs and war reparations to Bajor for
damages were included in the provisions. Kai Winn would be credited for
the treaty signed with Legate Turrel, though it was Vedek Bareil who
died closing the talks he had initiated and brought about the treaty.
The year also saw the return of the Orb of Wisdom, courtesy of Grand
Nagus Zek, who was paid a small price for his troubles. Shortly after,
First Minister Kalem Opren died, leaving the highest political chair
empty. Kai Winn secured the position and became both spiritual leader
and political ruler, leaving certain Bajorans skeptical about her
monopoly on power. After Kai Winn reacted rashly to the refusal of
Shaakar to return a few soil reclamators, Shaakar led his past fellow
resistance cell members, Major Kira among them, to a renegade life in
the mountains in protest. Winn cracked down by sending in her militia,
an action which provoked widespread public disapproval on Bajor. After
some running and hiding from the militia, Shaakar convinced its leader,
who was also a former resistance fighter, to put down his weapons and
seek other options. In the end, Shaakar ran for First Minister and won
by an overwhelming victory. The tension between the Dominion and the
Alpha Quadrant powers rose increasingly the following years. The Klingon
invasion of Cardassia served to set off a chain of events that
eventually escalated into war with the Federation and the dissolving of
the Khitomer Accords. Meanwhile, Bajor was still working towards
membership into the United Federation of Planets. During a conference on
Deep Space Nine, the Cardassian extremists The True Way made an attempt
on First Minister Shaakar's life which was exposed by Lt. Commander
Worf. Later, the title of Emissary was challenged by Akorem, saved from
death by the Prophets and sent two centuries forward into 24th century
Bajor. Though he assumed the title briefly, the unpopularity of his
archaic reforms soon pressed Captain Sisko to reassert himself and
resume the title of Emissary. The Prophets were testing their Emissary,
and later placed Akorem back into his own time. The year 2372 marked the
beginning of conflict for the Alpha Quadrant, Klingon forces engaged the
Federation in warfare, and even on Bajor, the fabled Pah-Wraiths were
freed from the fire caves and soon wreaked havoc, loosing no time to
attempt the elimination of the Prophets within the Celestial Temple. In
2373 the Federation Council voted to allow admission of Bajor into the
Federation in accord with an agreement reached the year before with
First Minister Shakaar. At the ceremony on DS9, Captain Sisko as the
Emissary warned against admission at this time and the Council of
Ministers voted to delay acceptance. With Cardassia freed from the iron
grip of the Central Command after a successful coup, the new civilian
government returned the Orb of Time to Bajor as a gesture of friendship.
It was also at about this time that Emissary Captain Sisko experienced a
pagh'tem'far and located the lost city B'Hala, from which he realized
the urgency of postponing Bajor's entrance into the Federation.
Membership into the Federation was postponed by the Bajoran Council of
Ministers as a result of the Emissary's warnings. It was not three
months before the civilian government was deposed by Gul Dukat, who
promptly joined the Dominion and became the head of the new Cardassian
government. By now awareness of the Founder's infiltration has made the
Alpha Quadrant apprehensive. Yet, the skilled impostors still almost
managed to destroy Bajor and Deep Space Nine by attempting to make the
Bajoran sun go nova. With the Dominion steadily breaking through the
Federation/Klingon fleet and gaining ground in its conquest of the Alpha
Quadrant, Bajorans became increasingly alarmed by the prospects of a
Dominion victory. Kai Winn consulted the Emissary on what course to
take, since the Dominion offered a nonaggression pact which would secure
the safety of Bajor as long as it remained neutral in the war. Sisko
could not make any guarantees about Bajor's security, and advised Winn
to stall for time. But eventually, when the Federation pulled out of
Deep Space Nine, he told Winn bluntly that he could not make any
guarantees for the safety of Bajor and asked her to sign the pact. While
the Dominion and its Cardassian allies occupied Deep Space Nine, again
renamed to Terok Nor, the Bajorans were compelled to cooperate. Major
Kira remained liaison officer, but the relationship is now
Dominion/Bajor, and she came to see that she had in effect become the
Collaborator she loathed in her terrorist days. The Federation retook
the station when the Wormhole aliens intervened and prevented Jem'Hadar
reinforcements from reaching the Alpha Quadrant, but the war was nowhere
near over. With Deep Space Nine as the front line of defense against the
Dominion, the Bajoran System was more important than ever. The wormhole
inverted itself and the Prophets seemingly abandoned Bajor when Dukat,
possessed by a Pah-Wraith turn the orbs black and destroyed the
Celestrial Temple. The turn of events shook Bajor's confidence in its
Emissary, but Sisko later recovered the Orb of the Emissary and restored
the wormhole. Towards the end of 2375, Kai Winn saw a vision from the
prophets for the first time. She was given the task of the "Restoration
of Bajor", and there would be a guide, a "man of the land", who would
help her walk the path laid down by them. Ecstatic that the prophets
have finally spoken to her, she quickly agreed to do anything for the
Prophets. Anjohl, a "simple farmer" visited her at around the same time
and she immediately believed him to be the guide. He soon shared her bed
and her favors, but in one horrible vision, the "Prophets" turned out to
be none other than the Pah-Wraiths. Though frightened at first, Kai Winn
tired of the silence of the Prophets and of remaining in the shadow of
Sisko, and decided to take the path the Pah-Wraiths laid out for her. At
around the same time, Colonel Kira was sent to Cardassia to help Damar's
resistance cell. They who once oppressed Bajor and created people like
Kira had become the oppressed themselves, and to add to the irony, Kira
would be key in their rebellion against the Dominion. From the once deep
hatred of any Cardassian, Kira had learned to not let generalization
influence her judgment and though she had no love for Cardassians, she
helped the resistance as much as she could. The role she played in the
freeing of Cardassia will in the future pave the way for bilateral ties
and a repaired relationship between the once enemies. Kai Winn returned
to Bajor after Sisko went against the will of the prophets and married
Kassidy Yates, where she began to use her position to access the
forbidden Kosst Amojan books. Considered by all Bajorans to be the Book
of Evil, it details how to release the Pah-Wraiths from the fire caves,
where they were trapped eons ago by the Prophets who now reside in the
Celestial Temple. Prodded along by Anjohl, Winn spent many months on her
project without success. She could not decipher the book, which
consisted of empty pages. When Sobor found out that Anjohl was none
other than Dukat surgically altered to appear Bajoran, Winn was shocked
beyond reason, and in a dizzied state accidentally stabbed her faithful
servant. Frightened at what she'd done, she vowed to destroy the evil
book, but the bloody knife in her hand set the book ablaze, and lo,
there were Bajoran ideograms on the once empty pages. Dukat she banned
from her bed and cast into the streets when he blinded himself by trying
to read the Kosst Amojan himself. Winn eventually read through the book
and she took along Dukat, who had been retrieved from the streets, to
the fire caves, where she freed the Pah-Wraiths by sacrificing Dukat and
reading chants from the book. The Pah-wraiths, however, passed over Winn
and favored Dukat, who was again inhabited by a Pah-wraiths. He
incinerated Winn and tried to overpower Sisko, who'd come down to
confront him. They both tumbled into the depths of the fire cave, and
with the book destroyed as well as Dukat, the Emissary's work was
finished, and he joined the Prophets in the Celestial Temple. The
Emissary had forever sealed away the Pah-Wraiths, and they would no
longer harm anyone again, but news of Kai Winn's betrayal will surely
have lasting effects on Bajoran religion and politics. The new
cooperative spirit between the Cardassians and Bajorans promises a new
future where the old archenemies can coexist peacefully, and Bajor's
sorrows as an occupied land will be but a faded memory.
