---
author:
- 'Mike Rouse-Deane'
date: 8 March 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Unknown

Height (Average)
:   6' - 7'

Weight (Average)
:   Unknown

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   "The Loss" (TNG), "Penumbra" (DS9), "Til Death Do Us Part" (DS9),
    "Strange Bedfellows" (DS9), "The Changing Face of Evil" (DS9), "When
    It Rains..." (DS9), "Tacking Into The Wind" (DS9), , "The Dogs Of
    War" (DS9), "What You Leave Behind" (DS9)

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

A powerful and mysterious Alpha Quadrant species, the Breen are one of
the very few major species who have evolved on a non-class M world. The
Breen homeworld has an average temperature of approximately -53 C, a
record low for any inhabited planet. They have evolved with a unique
physiology in order to cope with this ultra-cold environment; although
they breathe a fairly standard oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere at close to
normal pressure, the Breen have no blood or other liquid circulatory
system. Instead, their body is permeated by millions of tiny hollow
tubules which are open to the skin. These allow oxygen to be carried
directly into the body; once there it is absorbed directly through the
skin to be used by the internal organs. A similar process carries the
waste gasses back out again. The Breen reproductive cycle is also
unusual, in that they commonly produce offspring at a very early age.

Normal Breen body temperature is -38 C; exposure to temperatures above
-13 C will kill a Breen within minutes. Given that most known major
spacefaring species live on class M planets with an average temperature
far above that of Breen, the Breen have had to develop environmental
suits of great capability and reliability in order to co-exist with
others. Given their nature, it is understandable that the Breen have
become one of the Alpha Quadrants leading experts at creating and
maintaining extremely cold environments. They are acknowledged experts
on cold storage of chemical compounds.

Given the environmental difficulties, casual visits to Breen worlds by
non-Breen are virtually impossible. The Breen strongly discourage
visitors, and all those who do visit Breen worlds are confined to
purpose-designed encampments. Combined with the fact that the Breen
habitually design environmental suits which hide their faces from view,
this has given them their air of mystery. This has been further enhanced
by the fact that some empathic species, most notably Betazoids, are
unable to detect the thoughts or emotions of the Breen. Much of Breen is
known to be a frozen wasteland, and it is widely thought that the Breen
have deliberately avoided large surface developments for cultural
reasons.

Nevertheless, much has been discovered about the Breen over the years.
They have developed organic technology to the point where they routinely
use biological spacecraft. Some of these are fitted with cloaking
devices, a technology the Breen apparently invented independently of the
Romulans and Klingons. They use disruptor type weaponry rather than the
phaser technology used by the Federation. They are also the
manufacturers of the CRM-114... an extremely powerful portable hand
cannon designed to destroy moving targets and surface emplacements. The
Breen use disrupters as their primary weapons. They are classified as
type 3 and discharge blue pulses.

History
=======

The Breen have something of an aggressive history. They are politically
non-aligned, and have been known to attack Federation vessels. The Breen
utilize privateers, and one group of them attacked the Bajoran Colony of
Free Haven in 2372. The Breen have outposts near the Black Cluster, and
have settlements at Portas V near the Demilitarized Zone. A Breen of
unknown identity was replaced by a founder at some unknown date, and the
"original" was imprisoned in Internment Camp 371. This Breen gave his
life by initiating an escape from the camp in 2373, shortly after
Cardassia joined the Dominion. In 2366, two Breen warships attacked the
Cardassian ship Ravinok then forced it to crash land on Dozaria where
they put the crew and passengers on that ship into a forced labor camp
on the surface. There, the survivors of the crash mined dilithium under
the watchful eye of Breen guards. The Breen may be known for their low
integrity and backstabbing nature, as there is a Romulan saying "Never
turn your back to a Breen".

Though normally politically non-aligned, the Breen allied themselves
with the Dominion during the later part of the war, in 2375, with the
Federation Alliance. The Founders secretly conducted talks with the
Breen, promising them nearly the entire Alpha Quadrant, if and when they
were to win the war. Among the more notable systems promised to the
Breen by the Founders were Romulus and Earth.

The Breen made their presence felt almost immediately when they joined
the war by attacking the heart of the Federation, Earth. The attack was
meant to make them feel weak and vulnerable. Very few Breen ships
survived the attack on Earth. The Breen also figured greatly in the
battle for the Chin'toka System. The Breen unleashed a weapon that had
not been known to exist, an energy-dampening weapon, which rendered
ships powerless, defenseless, and helpless. The battle was a devastating
defeat to the Federation Alliance. The only good news they came away
from in this battle was that the Klingon ships were not affected by the
Breen weapon.

The Klingons alone would hold the Dominion forces to their side of the
front line until a countermeasure could be found to the Breen weapon.
Thanks to the Cardassian rebels fighting to free their world from the
Dominion, a Dominion ship with the Breen weapon newly installed was
stolen and returned to the Federation for study. A countermeasure was
later developed for the Breen energy-dampening weapon.

A large Federation-Klingon-Romulan fleet entered Cardassian space
looking to end the war. During the battle, a turning point was reached
when the Cardassians switch sides and began firing on the Jem'Hadar and
Breen ships. The Dominion retreated to Cardassia. With their new
Cardassian allies, the Federation Alliance pushed onward to Cardassia
Prime. After linking with fellow changeling Odo (convincing her to stop
the bloodshed), the female Founder agreed to surrender, and the war was
over.
