---
author:
- 'Mike Rouse-Deane'
date: 5 February 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Bynarus

Height (Average)
:   5' 0" - 5' 5"

Weight (Average)
:   Unknown

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   "11001001" (TNG)

Found in Starfleet
:   Occasional

Overview
========

Originating on the planet Bynaus, the Bynars are one of the few
cybernetic species known. Unlike the Borg, the Bynars are a benign
species, and many have served on Federation Starbases as computer
experts. The Bynars are heavily dependant on computers, to the extent
that their thought processes are as close to binary as is possible for
an organic being. Indeed, they are unable to live without the central
computer system on their world which interlinks them all. The Bynars,
who always come in groups of two, as to communication to each other.
There are similarities with the Bynars and the Borg, as in they are
linked via a central computer, but they always need another one present
with them, to function. Each Bynar has a device implanted into their
brain, as to transfer digitally information from one Bynar to another.

History
=======

The Bynar sun, Beta Magellan, went nova in 2364, which led to the
Enterprise-D's intervention in the matter. During the Enterprise's
upgrading on Starbase 74, the Bynars engineered a problem within the
ships antimatter containment, in which the ship was set on autopilot and
directed away from the station, whereupon the Bynars took control and
headed towards their homeworld, in which they had predicted that their
sun would go nova. For the Bynar's survival, they would have to shut
down their computer system to ensure its survival. Desperate to preserve
their species from extinction, the Bynars needed a large computer system
which would back up their original one. They decided that the ideal
choice would be the computer core of a Galaxy class starship, the most
powerful in existance at the time. Unfortunately, the Bynars believed
that the Federation would refuse to help, and therefore hijacked the
Enterprise-D. During this, the Bynars had arranged for two senior
officers, Commander Riker and Captain Picard, to be distracted on the
holodeck during the entire affair, so on arrival of their system, the
officers could reactivate the Bynars computer system and revive the
species.
