---
author:
- Randy McCullick
date: 30 November 2003
...

Caitus Sapien
Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Cait (Ferasa)

Height (Average)
:   1.6 meters

Weight (Average)
:   226 kg

Lifespan
:   115 years

Entry Type
:   Non-Canon

Source
:   The Animated Adventures, augmented by "Worlds of the Federation", by
    Shane Johnson, and the novels of Paul S. Gibbs

Found in Starfleet
:   Common

Overview
========

The Caitians are a feline race. They possess sleek bodies covered in
soft fur, which is of a golden coloration, similar to Terran lions.
Caitians are extremely agile, dexterous and fast. They are bipedal, with
a thick mane (darker color than the rest of the fur, but it can range in
color), long tail, and large golden eyes that provide excellent
low-light vision. On extremely rare occasions, a Caitian is born with
completely black fur and mane. There has never been a discovered pattern
to this, as it does not follow familial lines. It is considered very
attractive and exotic by other Caitians. Ancient Caitian legends also
tell of a White Caitian, but no such Caitian has been born in recorded
history. The Caitian excellence in hearing makes them ideal experts in
Communications. They hear ranges far above and below normal human
ranges.

Caitians are Carnivorous hunters, by nature. They prefer their meat raw
(blood temperature) or rare, and find it difficult to digest vegetables,
although grains are easier. Over 90% of Caitians suffer from Heart
Disease. This usually results in strokes and heart failure at around age
70. Almost all Caitians above that age require artificial hearts. As a
result, the hospitals on Cait are the best at such surgeries, as they
are so common.

Shedding season for all Caitians occurs once every six months. The
season where a Caitian Female is fertile occurs once every six months as
well, at opposite parts of the year. Caitians usually do not actively
choose a mate, but instead they go through a process called bonding,
which is as much physical as psychological. After adolescence, Caitians
give off a pheromone that tells others that they are unbonded and are
therefore available. When two Caitians bond, their pheromones shift and
are now read as ?unavailable? by other Caitains. The two Caitians become
addicted to each other?s pheromones, and as a result feel the need to be
close to one another. The entire process occurs on a subconscious level
and can happen without either Caitian knowing it at the time. With rare
exceptions, these Caitians fall in love and are married. As a result,
Caitian society sees bonding as a form of engagement. There seems to be
no rhyme or reason to bonding, though in most occasions it occurs when
couples first meet. The intensity of the bond varies per individual. The
bond lasts for the rest of the Caitians life, and is only broken upon
the death of one of the Caitians. Breaking a bond is extremely traumatic
for a Caitian. Only in instances where a bond is broken shortly after it
is form is future rebonding to another person possible, and even then it
is extremely rare. The first known instance of a Caitian bonding with a
non-Caitian occurred in 2278 and more have happened since that time. A
Caitian can mate without being bonded, but such activitity is considered
"shallow" and "unfulfilling" compared to bond-mates.

Standard adult Caitians wear a day-robe, a one piece outfit designed for
coolness of wear, as Cait is 90% hot Savannah. Children can wear
day-robes, but it is not uncommon for them not to wear clothing until
adolescence. Caitians wear a collar at all times in public, as the neck
is considered a vulnerable/sensitive area. Bonded Caitians following old
traditions may wear identical ankle bracelets, to show their devotion to
each other. According to the tradition, this anklet is never supposed to
be removed for the rest of their lives. Shoes or boots are typically not
worn by Caitians, even in Starfleet.

The Caitian language consists of multiple soft tones, spoken with a deep
purring resonance; this style of communication makes it difficult for
the Caitians to adapt to phoenetic languages. When a Caitian speaks
Standard as a second language, it is usually punctuated by purring "R"s
and hissing "S"s. Caitian female names typically start with M', while
male names typically start with S'.

While it has rapidly been dwindling the last few centuries, a few
Caitians still religiously worship their matron Deity, the Goddess, a
monotheistic entity, that according to their religion created the
universe. Opposing her are the Dark Ones, who try to trick Caitians and
make their lives miserable. The Goddess is worshipped in Detailed
statues, usually kept in a personal shine in the home.

Another strong part of Caitian belief is their claws. While a Caitian
may dull their claws to keep from damaging things during casual contact,
a Caitian will never of their own free will deliberately trim their
claws to the point of uselessness or have them permanently removed. Many
Caitians would rather die then endure such humiliation, and to do such
to a Caitian against their will is tantamount to rape.

History
=======

Cait?s origins are steeped in mystery. The Kzin, the Regulans, and the
Lyrans all claim that Cait was essentially a "Lost Colony" of theirs.
Considering the similar genetic markup of the four species, those
theories are possible. However, it is also possible that all four
species were ?seeded? in that section of space by an alien race akin to
the Preservers. However it was formed, Caitian culture evolved
separately from the other races.

Initially, Caitians were a hunting people, wild predators on the
savannah. However, what farming did to the humans, ranching did to the
Caitians. The domestication of local wildlife turned the nomadic people
into more sedentary people. As a result, culture soon flourished and in
a few thousand years, civilization, based around the ranch principle.

Cait would have remained a small, insignifigant planet had not it?s
system been rich in a rare element: Dilithium. This brought it to the
attention of the local powers, including the Federation. Cait was
admitted to the Federation in 2234 and has been a great asset since.
