---
author:
- Samuel Moritz
date: 6 November 2001
...

Homo Dilko
Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Dilkia Prime

Height (Average)
:   6'1"

Weight (Average)
:   190 lbs

Lifespan
:   60 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

Dilkia Prime is a small planet, and has a lot of seas. The whole planet
is run by a Council that consists of the 10 oldest Dilkians alive.
Everything is decided by voting, and whatever the Council orders
happens. The Dilkians are almost identical to humans in appearance
except for two things. One, they have two small and perfectly round
bumps in the centre of their forheads, and two, they mature much faster
than a human. For example, A 10 year-old Dilkian has the size and
brainpower of a 20 year-old human. The downside to this is that the
Dilkians have a much shorter lifespan than humans.

The Dilkians are also a very peaceful race. In fact so peaceful that
their spaceships have no physical weapons whatsoever. But they defend
themselves in other ways. When confronted with an enemy in space they
first try to be as diplomatic as possible, but if that fails they use
their psychic weapon. Everyone aboard the ship gather their energy and
sends small psychic blasts to the enemy ship. Every blast makes enemy
crew more and more sleepy. After a short while they are asleep. The
Dilkians use the time that passes until the awakening to get away at
maximum warp.

Their planet has a sensor disruption system that were built by Dilkian
ancestors many centuries ago, that hides the techology on the planet
from normal sensors. Every Dilkian is born with the weapon and is
trained from a young age to use it. Should anyone misuse it they are
immediatly brought to the Council which in an advanced and ancient
ceremony creates a mental barrier in the mind of the target person. The
barrier prevents them from using any psychic powers. Many of the rejects
have tried to remove that barrier, but they have never been successful.
After losing their weapon they often leave the planet in shame, towards
another M class planet in the system, where the rejected Dilkians have
founded a colony, that wants no contact with the Federation.

History
=======

Their planet has a sensor disruption system that were built by Dilkian
ancestors many centuries ago, that hides the techology on the planet
from normal sensors. Every Dilkian is born with the weapon and is
trained from a young age to use it. Should anyone misuse it they are
immediatly brought to the Council which in an advanced and ancient
ceremony creates a mental barrier in the mind of the target person. The
barrier prevents them from using any psychic powers. Many of the rejects
have tried to remove that barrier, but they have never been successful.
After losing their weapon they often leave the planet in shame, towards
another M class planet in the system, where the rejected Dilkians have
founded a colony, that wants no contact with the Federation.

Within a few days, a science vessel arrived, and the Dilkians agreed to
a change of teams. A team of Star-Fleet scientists stayed on Dilkia
Prime and a team of Dilkian scientists and an ambassador, the 11th
oldest person on Dilkia Prime,accompanied the science vessel back to
Earth. The federation and the Dilkians of Dilkia Prime live in peace,
and Dilkia Prime with it's tropical climate is a popular tourist resort
for many people.
