---
author:
- Jason Lee
date: 13 March 2003
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Talatinwe

Height (Average)
:   1.7 meters (5' 8")

Weight (Average)
:   48 kg (105 lbs)

Lifespan
:   400 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

The Eldaraane are a very special nomadic people. The Eldaraane have ears
like Vulcans, however, much more pointy and would be described as more
'elf'/eleven' like. The Eldaraane have a rich culture and are a warp
capable species. The Eldaraane are also very spiritual and believe that
everything needs to be in spiritual and natural alignment. They are very
intelligent group of beings who are remarkable problem solvers. The
technology that the Eldaraane have is beyond the understanding of
current 24th century scientists. Since the Eldaraane have remarkable
length of lives, their early scientists were able to make incredible
advancements. They have not encountered the Dominion or the Federation
in their nomadic wanderings.

History
=======

Ten thousand years ago, the Eldaraane's star, Tala, was on the verge of
explosion. [In terms to Earth years, 8000 B.C.] It was guessed that the
star would explode within two thousand years. Many Eldaraane did not
wish to leave their home world, so they were deciding for the worse. An
Eldaraane scientist by the name of Jor Salous theorized if a special
warp bubble surrounded the planet, it might be possible to move the
planet out of harm's way. The idea was to build a metal sphere around
the planet with enough density and weight that it a gravitational force
balance acted between the sphere around the planet and the planet
itself. Additionally, the sphere would contain many artificial
generators, such as gravity and light generators, to produce the
necessary effects from its single moon and sun. The idea is not
necessarily impossible with the technology that the Eldaraane possessed,
but it seemed too absurd. Many of the scientists of the Eldaraane were
trying to figure out how to chemically balance Tala to prevent its
explosion.

The proposal was laughed at by many scientists, but for the sake of
argument, they permitted Jor Salous to built an experimental "planet
mover" on their moon, Dara. Jor received a large grant from the
planetary government to build his planet mover on Dara. It took a fourth
of Jor?s lifetime building what he needed for Dara. But after
considerable research, planning and construction, Jor completed his
project, and it was successful. Toward the end of his project, many
Eldaraane began to believe into Jor Salous and worked closely to
understand how his project worked. Jor Salous made it possible to move
Dara out of orbit and into low warp speeds. Jor?s popularity soared on
Talatinwe, gathering many students and scientists to understand his
theories so that they might be able to continue Jor?s work after he
passed away. However, it took much difficulty to move the small moon
back into place.

Construction on Talatinwe moving sphere started on what the Eldaraane
began to call, 1900 B.T.E., otherwise known as Before Tala Explodes. The
scientific community on Talatinwe had a split focus between on
correcting the star and performing Jor?s planetary moving project. Jor
Salous died in 1597 BTE, at a ripe age of 412. Eldaraane scientists
completed Jor?s Talatinwe project in 123 BTE. They had made many
improvements, but were not able to move the planet. Those who began to
fear for the worse started construction of homes and communities on Dala
the year after the Talatinwe project were completed. In 100 BTE, a major
shield project on Talatinwe and on Dala began construction. A small
group of scientists had been working on creating powerful shielding that
might shield Talatinwe and Dala from the explosion of Tala, or at least
to weaken its effects since Jor?s project on Dala. In 54 BTE, the
pressure was on. All attempts in stopping Tala from exploding had
failed, and problems were still in the planetary movement project of
Talatinwe. Many Eldaraane feared for the worse, and half of the
population on Talatinwe moved to Dala. In 34 BTE, the shield project
completed and it was thought that if the Jor project failed on
Talatinwe, the Jor sphere along with the shields would at least protect
Talatinwe from major problems. In 15 BTE, a brilliant scientist named
Palan Shaldar found an error in Jor?s calculations for Talatinwe. This
error was the problem in the Talatinwe project and Palan calculated that
the correction would be able to be corrected in 7 years. In 8 BTE, the
Jor-Talatinwe project officially completed, which allowed Talatinwe to
move out of the star system. By 1 BTE, Talatinwe had reached the outer
edges of the star system after careful and skillful navigation. When 0
BTE occurred, Tala exploded, and Talatinwe along with its single moon,
Dala, and the Eldaraane were safely out of their planetary system.

Since then, the Eldaraane have numbered their years as an age of
wandering, where they started their journey counted as 1 AW. They were
hoping to search for a place where Talatinwe and Dala might fit into an
uninhabited star system with only a few planets that matched something
similar to their star. To the Eldaraane, placing their planet and moon
'any old place' was unacceptable. The Eldaraane wanted a place where
they can place their planet for a long time without fear or worry of
their new star exploding and that their new star had an exact harmonic
nature to their previous star. Essentially, they would only settle their
planet in a star system that did not have any other alien culture and
fit accordingly to their belief that their planet and moon belonged to
that star system.

As the Eldaraane move their planet and moon, at certain periods will
some Eldaraane will move to settle other worlds or move with other alien
cultures. Some of these 'offshoots' forget they were Eldaraane, and few
of them carry their legend of the Eldaraane. Scouts and supply ships of
the Eldaraane have very tight schedules to make their rendezvous with
the planet or moon. If any supply ship does not make it in time, they
are considered lost and will never see their home planet again. These
lost Eldaraane become a part of a group of wanderers from other lost
Eldaraane or they settle down in other alien cultures.

Their star system was located in the deep "Western" edges of the Alpha
Quadrant, in the outer rim of the galaxy. Through their course of their
travels the Eldaraane have made numerous improvements to their shield
design, warp speed and to their artificial ecosystem. Additionally, the
Eldaraane have built upon the outside of the domes of the planet and the
moon to provide more support in shielding, power and warp capacity.
Other improvements have included cloaking technology, but are used
limited only for emergencies due to the power drain on their systems. It
is now rumored that both planet-moving ships travel at a constant speed
of warp 6. The last known location of the Eldaraane is said that the
Eldaraane are moving generally speaking "east" toward Federation space.
