---
author:
- Matt Evans
date: 23 July 2002
...

Hunteris Hubonis
Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Creslin V

Height (Average)
:   5' 5"

Weight (Average)
:   130 lbs

Lifespan
:   260 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

An independent mining corporation first discovered the Elven race after
an expedition was sent to their home world. The Elven name was actually
chosen for them by some of the miners who compared them to legend and
myth. The name has stuck ever since. They have a mastery of language
skills and quickly picked up English from the miners. Their native
language consists of an almost bird-like whistling quality. An Elf is
short and relatively small in size, but is very athletic and graceful.
They are the best at hunting, tracking, running, and a variety of other
physical sports. They have very keen senses and are much better than
humans in reflexes and agility. They do not have a great amount of
strength, though, but make up for it in other areas. It is not very
likely to see very many Elves outside of their planet because their
society is a very close knit community. However, a few of the more
prestigious families can afford to send their sons and daughters off to
train elsewhere.

History
=======

Their social structure evolved to what it is today after several bloody
civil wars. Cooperation became the main goal in their society. It could
be compared to Communism on Earth except for the fact that it actually
works. Their economy was based upon a barter system as opposed to
currency. A fair system of administration was established by having
representatives from each family unit attend the regional unit council
meetings. A lot of focus was spent on achieving mastery of agriculture
and environmental study. The race has a proverbial 'green thumb', but
took several decades to achieve this. Not much else is known of their
history prior to First Contact.

As far as the recorded history goes, the Elven society was remarkably
peaceful. Most of the family units cooperated with each other to make
the region units. Each region units was self-sufficient, but quite a bit
of trading and commerce happened between each region. After being
discovered by the miners a massive change technology wise occurred. In
exchange for the rights to mine the planet and the knowledge of the
surrounding area, the mining corporation invested considerable resources
to improve the quality of life on the planet. Spaceports, factories, and
processing plants were all constructed and quite a few jobs were opened
to the population. However, there was a stipulation that the mining and
refining of the material not harm the environment. Schools were built,
but until present only the most fortunate received any real education.
