---
author:
- Amanda Noon
date: 7 December 2001
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Etopos

Height (Average)
:   6'

Weight (Average)
:   170 lbs

Lifespan
:   120 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

An Etopian year is equivalent to about two Earth years. They have ten
months and split down into ten day weeks, with five weeks in each month.
Leadership is passed down in families unless a family is shamed then the
next highest family takes over the leadership. Every ten earth years the
Tribal leaders of each nation pick one amongst them to be the nation
leader. These Nation leaders then pick the World Leader.

The Economy is based on the free market but all members of society are
expected to pay a tithe of all earnings to their tribal leader. If a
nation decides that more money is needed then the tribal leaders are
ordered to collect extra tithes. For example the colonisation projects
were paid for with extra tithes from all the nations. The nations were
then entitled to put forward their share of colonists for the program.
When the moons were turned into the industrial centres for Etopos each
nation was given responsibility for a share of the development. In
return each nation receives a share of the income.

When the colonies were formed on Mustine and Trexite a similar
arrangement was set up. All the nations supported the colonies for the
first one hundred earth years. After this the colonies were declared
independent and left to their own devices. Most Etopians live a simple
life, farming and gardening are common forms of employment. Many are
skilled in agro sciences, others specialise in terraforming. Those
without greenfingers tend to find their way to the moons.

Etopos exports many foodstuffs, famous for the Etopian Mallow fruits,
highly prized as they are not only delicious but very difficult to
transport without ruining their delicate flavour and texture. All
Etopians are guaranteed to receive an education, medical care, shelter
and food. In return they pay their tithes. Although the standard that
must be provided by the Tribal leader is not stipulated, therefore it is
generally in people's better interests to work to provide better for
themselves and their families. The World Government tries to ensure that
certain basic levels of education and health care are maintained.

History
=======

Etopos was founded on a feudal system. Tribal leaders formed into
nations and from there became a World Government. The process from
warring tribes to a World Government took many centuries and many bloody
wars. But had settled to the modern and fairly peaceful system by the
Etopians equivalent of the twentieth century. Hence they never
experienced an World Wars. Farming was an easy task on Etopos, very
rarely will a plant struggle. Those who didn't farm the land farmed the
seas. The only problem that drove farmers to become creative was the
weather on Etopos. Hence Etopian Scientists developed methods of
controlling the weather early on in their industrial age.

Etopian biology was also far in advance of earth's of a similar era. The
desire to protect their planet from the ravages of industry were spotted
much earlier on Etopos than on Earth but the method they came up with
took longer to develop. Having concentrated more on the bio sciences, it
took a few extra years to firstly catch up on the physical sciences and
then come up with methods that would cause least damage to their planet.
In the end the desire to move heavy industry off the planet and the need
to place weather control satellites in space forced the Etopians into a
Space Age.

Then a desire to not overcrowd their planet encouraged the nations to
fund programs exploring space and developing the colonisation program.
From there the discovery of warp quickly followed with the desire to
travel between the first colony and the Homeworld more rapidly. Shortly
after their discovery of Warp the Federation made first contact and
Etopos joined the Federation. For the Etopian's planet history see
Etopos Planet entry.

TREXITE COLONY- Unlike their Homeworld Etopos, Trexite has had to keep
their industry on planet. But following the lead of the Homeworld they
have ensured that it does not affect their natural environment. One
trick was to move some of the industry into the domed cities as the
people moved out. The people of Trexite refer to themselves as Trexans.
Their economic and political systems are very similar in nature to those
of the Homeworld. Being close to the Homeworld has meant that strong
ties have remained between the two worlds. Trade between the two planets
continues and benefits both planets.

MUSTINE COLONY- Mustine has not faired so well. Partly due to fewer
people choosing to move to the planet and partly due to problems of ill
health that have beset the colonists. In the beginning whilst living in
the domes the colonists did not fair so badly but on moving outside poor
health became a norm. Crops struggled to thrive and with the colonists
poor health it was difficult to develop as quickly as Trexite had.
During the first hundred years when Etopos supported the colony these
problems were offset by supplies and services from the Homeworld. But
since independence was declared the colony has been struggling. Etopian
scientists have declared that the health problems are related to
something on the planet but cannot yet define what. Teams were sent to
investigate but since independence the Mustines have been left to their
own devices. Contact between the Homeworld and Mustine has been very
limited since independence and there is much bad feeling.
