---
author:
- Larry Garfield
date: 12 April 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Flick (Iota Zeta II)

Height (Average)
:   1.8 meters

Weight (Average)
:   78.4 kg

Lifespan
:   84 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

The Flarn are basically humanoid, with skin that is a pale mint green.
Their only other identifying feature is a brow ridge that runs from
their left ear up to their forehead and across the forehead, to descent
symmetrically on the other side to their right ear. All males have
chocolate brown hair, while all females have white hair.

Male Flarn are stronger and more muscular than their female
counterparts, and as such make up the bulk of their armed forces.
However, the 26% of the military that is female is quite feared, even by
their male comrades. It is possible that the maternal instinct is part
of the increased aggressiveness of the Flarn female over the male of the
species. A female Flarn is more likely to shoot first and ask questions
later.

A typical Flarn is stronger than their human counterpart, roughly on par
with an angry Vulcan. However, there is no such concept as "honor" or a
"fair fight" in Flarn culture, so they have no qualms about foregoing
their physical advantage to shoot someone in the back with a disruptor.
Flarn are decidedly self-interested, aggressive, and ambitious. Every
Flarn's lifelong dream is to be supreme despot of the universe, simply
for the power trip involved. However, pragmatism typically keeps them
loyal to their chosen military, making bribery difficult in most cases.

History
=======

The Flarn are a warrior race that spent most of their history at war
with themselves. As such, they devoted most of their scientific
endeavors to machines of war. They apparently developed photon torpedoes
before they developed space ships to put them on. The entire planet was
unified only in 2343, when one faction developed basic space travel.
They used their new power to oppress the rest of the factions, and have
since formed a single, cohesive, militaristic oligarchy.

As they are new to space travel, their fastest ships are capable of only
warp 3.2 sustained, and 3.6 max for 2 hours. However, due to their
violent history and lengthy arms race, their weapons and shielding are
superior to Starfleet's.

The Flarn are the sole species in the small Flarn Regime.
