---
author:
- Jason Lee
date: 1 December 2001
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Komm III (Kommun), In the Delta Quadrant near the Beta Quadrant

Height (Average)
:   5' 7"

Weight (Average)
:   140 lbs

Lifespan
:   120 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Unlikely

Overview
========

This species was contacted by Earth in the 1960s. Specifically, the
Kommunicatons received an Earth signal but Earth was not aware of that
fact. Features to Kommunicatons are larger ears than humans but smaller
than Ferengi. Mouths are slightly larger as well than other Terrans.
These two differences are what a Kommunicaton stand out from human
beings. Their social ability and their charisma make them very likable.
Starfleet doctors guess that their charisma comes from their genes. This
ability will make the toughest and meanest alien creatures like them
almost instantly. This ability is somewhat equivalent to a popular
person or very successful diplomat.

The Kommunicatons translated their alien name as close as to our
language as possible. Generally, a Kommunicaton is one who loves to talk
and does it well. It would be abnormal for a Kommunicaton not socialize
for a period of the day. It is said that the reason that a Kommunicaton
has large ears and a large mouth is to speak well and to listen
attentively. It might be said that if other races met a Kommunicaton,
one would describe them as very talkative. The Kommunicatons' ability of
charisma can be explained as one who is genetically born likable. A
combination of pheromones and the genetic ability to smooth talk can
closely define as the charisma.

For example, if a Kommunicaton were to talk to an alien who was outraged
at that Kommunicaton, the after a few seconds talking to the alien, the
alien would calm down and like the Kommunicaton. To put it this way, a
Kommunicaton does not emote calm, rather a Kommunicaton emote
friendship. This charisma is similar to a telepathic impression that
leaves the other person in a good mood and good relations to the
Kommunicaton. The Kommunicatons Government is a republic type of
government, one much like the United States' government on Earth. It is
guessed that the Kommunicatons modeled their government after the United
States because of The Signal's message with some minor changes.

The Kommunicatons Culture is one full of pleasantries. Their culture
involves mainly talking, so all forms of games and any type of culture
involves socializing in one form or another. Their matter of dress is
remarkably simple and comfortable. Kommunicatons have a relatively
simple way of life. Since contact by Earth, most jobs are geared toward
for scientific research and improvement of Kommunicaton life. Currency
is almost nonexistent; the only real currency that is accounted for is
an energy quota. This energy quota maybe used for special items or
special food items. Items that do not require the energy quota are free
and usually supplied by the government. One item of interest that is
carried by every Kommunicaton is a compact audio/video communications
device. First contact with the Kommunicatons have been made by the USS
Aztec and its crew with Captain Kenson Xu.

History
=======

Kommunicatons have a relatively similar technological history to Earth.
As for cultural history, Kommunicatons were divided into 20 nations over
20 different islands and continents. Although Kommunicatons were divided
into 20 nations, Kommunicatons never had a war between the nations. Due
to their nature of their charisma, no Kommunicaton could get angry
enough at another Kommunicaton to actually fight a war. Their
technological progress halted at the technological level of the 1960s
and stayed at that level for about 200 years. Their technological level
excluded computers, but did include the combustible engine, the radio,
the television, etc. For those 200 years, Kommunicatons scientists
proclaimed that technology could not be advanced anymore.

In the Earth year of 2021, the Kommunicatons picked up a stray radio
signal from Earth. Unknown to the Kommunicatons, this signal traveled
through an unstable temporal shifting wormhole which shortly collapsed
after the signal when through. Their culture latched on the idea to
contacting Earth, which all research methods to communications. As a
culture and historical icon, the radio signal is referred as "The
Signal" and is revered as something sacred. Interesting enough, subspace
communications was invented before the warp drive. Kommunicatons only
can guess about the wormhole because of the fact that they are missing a
star from their nightly skyline on their world. Pictures of the skyline
before and after The Signal differ by a single star. Kommunicaton
scientists can only guess that the object that was missing from the sky
was responsible for delivering the signal. This wormhole was stable at
the Kommunicaton's end but shifted at the other end.

The Signal's message contained mathematical formulas and other things
that described where the message was coming from. The basic gist of the
message was, "Greetings from the Planet Earth! We come in peace and have
sent this message in search for other intelligent beings. We hope and
wait for your reply." One of the mathematical formulas described how to
find the Sol System from the center of the galactic origin point. In
addition, there was extraneous information such as the United States
Constitution, biological information about man, and some technological
highlights from the 1960s. The Kommunicatons to this date have colonized
their home system in addition to two neighboring systems and have made
contact with two other races. Although their subspace communications is
quite advanced which can contact any race within half a quadrant
distance, their government decided to limit contact with other races and
focus on the main goal of contacting Earth.

The Kommunicatons have developed advanced data compression techniques
for communications purposes which allow the transmission of high volumes
of data within a small period of time. In addition, these compression
techniques are relatively simple for most computers to decompress
quickly. Before their invention of the warp drive, the Kommunicatons
invented an equivalent to the Starfleet transporter in the 2360s.
Transporter technology is a relatively new technology, and is not
generally trusted. After the invention of the transporter came the basic
warp drive. Since this technology is still new, the Kommunicatons have
only the limited warp capacity of warp 1. In the 2370s, the
Kommunicatons intercepted Voyager's communications to and from Earth.
Today, in 2377, the Kommunicatons have made first contact. They have
sent a representative, by the name of Jagon, over to Earth using their
data compression techniques, and their relatively new transporter
technology.
