---
author:
- Jason Lee
date: 9 April 2002
...

Thirtytwo sententia
Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Quanta (Gamma Quadrant, toward the Delta Quadrant)

Height (Average)
:   6' 8"

Weight (Average)
:   Unknown

Lifespan
:   320 years

Entry Type
:   Custom

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

Quasians are an interesting race in which, as far as they know, could
always perceive thought in 32 different ways. They are similar to the
Bynars in which the Bynars are based in pairs. The Quasians have an
entire system based in 32. A Lenta is roughly equal to 32 inches, and a
Pounta is equal to roughly 32 Pounds. The Quasian calendar is a most
remarkable one, and very precise to their planet's rotation around their
special star. One Quasian Year has 10 months, with each month having
exactly 32 days. Each Quanta, the name given to a Quasian year and their
star, is about 485 Earth days. The Quasians have an interesting set up
of time as well. Each Quasian day has 32 hours, each Quasian hour has 64
minutes and each Quasian second has 64 seconds.

The Quasian spelling for their units is not far off from English, just
that it is slightly cut and has 'ta' on the end. A few examples are dta
-Quasian day, minuta - Quasian minute, secota - Quasian second, mota -
Quasian month.

Their holy theory, as they call it, is the Quasian Way of Life. This way
of life is actually a scientific theory about how one interact with 31
other selves. It is said that a computer is run on only two out of 32
states of an electron, while a Quantum computer is run on all 32 states
of the electron. Quasians are living Quantum computers. They exist in a
Quantum flux, and if one had the chance to run a scan over a Quasian,
one would discover that there was the existence of 31 other dimensions
in where the Quasian was standing.

Quasians have white hair, and may have beards, but beards are usually
reserved for the wisest people or those part of the important aspects of
their scientific community. Quasians bluish purplish skin, and their eye
colors vary from yellow, black, and blue. Quasians are mainly thin, and
have large heads. They do not have muscular builds because it is usually
looked down upon. The Quasian culture is one built on the focus of the
mind and the ability to think with the other 31 dimensions which is part
of them. Quasians are not imposing any manner. One would say that the
Quasians primarily keep to themselves and answer only when asked.

Their star system only has one true planet orbiting their one star.
However, under close scans, one would discover their were actually 32
planets orbiting their star and that each planet was similar to the one
that seemed to be the only planet in the system. It is because of this
unique star and the way that the other planets seem to interact with the
multiverse that this particular culture can exist with 31 other selves.
Other than the odd fact that each Quasian has 31 other selves, they are
normal like any other humanoids and have females and males.

The Quasians are an advanced race, with computers beyond that of the
Federation. They do not have warp capacity but they have the technology
to something far more advanced to the Quantum Slipstream. The Quasians
are almost complete in developing a device known as the Quantum
Transporter that transports something by manipulating the quantum level
to travel. The transporter uses a similar theory of what humans
theorized about the Hyper Drive. However, the transporter is much more
advanced in that when research is completed, the Quasians would be able
to travel anywhere from point A in the galaxy to point B in an instant,
no matter how far the distance. As their communications is not on the
similar level, the Quasians do not dare to risk travel beyond the
galaxy.

The Quasian government is an orderly and organized one, consisting of 32
representatives as a collective council for their planet. These 32
representatives are usually the 32 wisest and smartest people of all
Quasians. This council is usually referred as the Quantar. Under the
council, there are 32 committees that do various administrative tasks
ordered by the council. These committees have 32 people each, and are
either hired or voted by the people into office. In the event of an
emergency or a disagreement, the 32 committees may meet, vote for one
representative for each committee and form the Quasian Council of
Agreement. The Quasian Council of Agreement is made of the 32 original
representatives plus the 32 elected representatives of committees. The
Council may include up to 32 elective representatives of the people, if
the need arises. The Quasian Council requires 2/3 in agreement of all
those present.

History
=======

The Quasian history, or historta, is mostly filled with the discovery of
science and the existence of the other 31 selves. The Quasians know that
their history stretchs for at least 500,000 Earth years and they evolved
from a similar animal akin to the Earth's dolphins. The Quasians have
two ages, the first age they refer as The Age of Awareness. This is age
is considered as a dark age when their race were savage and not aware of
the other 31 selves. The Age of Awareness was filled with wars and
uneducated people. It was not until 3000 Quanta ago that a sciencist
named Quanas proposed a theory about the view of their planet that the
system existed on 32 dimensional planets that intersected each other.
This theory was developed into fact 10 Quanta later. After what they
mark as The Discovery, the Quasians were able to united as one planet.
The theory was able to advance the Quasians to make them see beyond
their old petty differences. They discovered that their star has 32
planets in the same circular orbit as their planet, rotating in
different angles. They were not able to see it at first without the aid
of a special visual device, but now every Quasian can see the other 32
dimensions. Within a few Motas, the Quasians were able to develop a
device in which interacted between parallel dimensions so they could
communication with the other 31 selves. As time progressed, Quasians
were able to communication almost instantly with their other selves.
With each improvement, the Quasians can now think and hold a great deal
of knowledge.

When the Quasians went to explore space, they found that their was one
large problem. One of these problems was the fact that they discovered
they could not maintain contact with their other selves. The first
Quasians in space went insane and died shortly after. When the space
craft crashed back to the planet's surface, the Quasians were able to
resolve the problem with a dimensional device in which they were around
their necks. As time progressed, the dimensional device became part of
jewelery, such as necklaces and bracelets. The Quasians never dared to
settle on other planets in fear that their dimensional devices would
break down, so they only explored the galaxy to exchange information.
They have explored only limited of their space, and do not dare to
interfere with other alien races. The Quasians try to keep to
themselves, and tried to develop faster ways of transportation in order
to increase their range of going to a certain point and returning home
just as fast. They have not been successful in developing a large scale
dimensional device to encompass a larger area. The Quasians have not yet
met the Dominion, and it is apparent that the Dominion is a bit farther
away. The Quasians have heard of the Dominion, however, they are trying
their best to avoid the Dominion.
