---
author:
- 'Mike Rouse-Deane'
date: 6 March 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Talos IV

Height (Average)
:   Unknown

Weight (Average)
:   Unknown

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   "The Cage" (TOS), "The Menagerie, Pt 1. and 2" (TOS)

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

One of the more mysterious species the Federation has encountered, the
Talosian culture dates back hundreds of thousands of years. The
Talosians are a powerful dominant humanoid culture, who have lived on
Talos 4 for many years. The Talosians during their history were nearly
killed by a nuclear war, however a few survivors clung to life in
underground caves and passageways. During the time in these caves, the
Talosians became dependent upon creating illusions using mind as well as
technology from their ancestors.

By the mid-23rd century, the Talosians resorted to capturing passing
travellers to serve as a new source for illusions. The Talosians enjoyed
sharing the experiences of those aliens they had collected prior to the
war, but this became a dangerous narcotic for them. They came to rely on
their fantasy life more and more, eventually losing almost all touch
with reality. Meanwhile, their technology crumbled and decayed around
them to leave them all but helpless. There has been no further contact
with the Talosians due to General Order 7 which states: "No Starfleet
vessel shall visit the planet Talos IV under any circumstances,
emergency or otherwise. This order supersedes General Order 6. Any
transgression of this general order shall be punishable by death."

History
=======

The Talosian response was to bring aliens to their world, hoping to
select appropriate specimens and use them to breed an entire race of
slaves to maintain their society whilst they continued to enjoy their
telepathic fantasy lives. The first encounter between Talosians and
Humanity came when the SS Columbia crashed on Talos IV in 2236. All the
crew were killed except for one woman, Vina, who was badly injured. The
Talosians repaired her injuries, but although they found Humans to be an
ideal physical choice for their slaves they were not able to proceed
with their plans for a further 18 years due to the lack of any male
candidate, which was to be Captain Christopher Pike.

In 2254, the Talosians captured the USS Enterprise, then under the
command of Captain Christopher Pike, in an attempt to create a permanent
human community with a female Vina, which was captured after her ship
crashed on the planet several years earlier. But Pike was resistant to
being kept in a cell, so the Talosians believed that they were
unsuitable subjects for their needs. Nevertheless, in 2266, the
Talosians invited Pike to return to their world after an accident left
him disabled. At Talos, illusions made it possible for Pike to live out
the remainder of his life unfettered by the damage of his body. Since
this time there has been no further contact with the Talosians.
Presumably their society is still decaying, although the presence of a
Human male and female may mean that a small group of Humans was produced
after all.
