---
author:
- 'Mike Rouse-Deane'
date: 27 January 2002
...

Abstract
========

Homeworld
:   Tholia

Height (Average)
:   Unknown

Weight (Average)
:   Unknown

Lifespan
:   Unknown

Entry Type
:   Canon

Source
:   "The Tholian Web" (TOS), "Life Support" (DS9)

Found in Starfleet
:   Never

Overview
========

A Beta quadrant species, the Tholians are one of the relatively few
major non-Humanoid races in our section of the galaxy. In appearance
they are multifaceted solids, apparently existing at a very high
temperature. Tholians tend to be aggressive, territorial and extremely
punctual beings who do not welcome intrusions into their space. A silk,
known as Tholian silk, is highly prized as it is virtually frictionless
and is known to be made within their homeworld, Tholia.

They are highly advanced sentient beings, apparently crystalline
species, non-humanoid in appearance and extremely territorial in
disposition. They hail from a hot planet by Human standards, probably
not Class-M. Together, two Tholian ships can literally spin a web of
energy in space in order to trap an enemy vessel, after which the web is
then drawn together, constricting and finally destroying the vessel
inside.

On stardate 5693.2, the U.S.S. Enterprise NCC-1701 made first contact
with this species. Tholians are a hive-mind and known for their
punctuality. One of the independent border races that could have been
dragged into a Klingon civil war, due to their proximity. During a
period of renewed conflict with the United Federation of Planets in
2253, they attacked a starbase and killed the entire complement, except
civilian advisor Kyle Riker, who refused to give up survival. In a
battle simulation during his Academy days, Riker figured out the sensory
blind spot of a Tholian ship and hid there. However, tensions have eased
enough for the Tholians to send an ambassador to space station Deep
Space Nine, in talks with the Federation for hopefully peace with the
species.

History
=======

The USS Enterprise encountered the Tholians in 2267 while investigating
the loss of the USS Defiant in an interphase region. The Tholians
demanded an explanation for the Starship's presence, and initially
agreed to allow the Enterprise to remain in the area. When the ship was
unable to provide proof of the Defiant's presence in the area the
Tholians attacked the ship. The Enterprise proved militarily superior to
the Tholian vessels, but was almost trapped within one of the forcefield
webs, a system designed to enclose a vessel within a network virtually
unbreakable strands.

In 2353 the Tholians attacked and nearly destroyed a Federation
starbase, killing all but one of its complement. As recently as 2355
tensions remained high enough that Starfleet routinely trained against
Tholian warships in simulations. Tensions remained sufficiently high
that it was feared that they might become involved in the Klingon civil
war, but eventually relations with the Federation were established and
in 2371 a Tholian Ambassador visited Deep Space Nine. A Tholian observer
was present at the ill fated Antwerp conference on Earth in 2372 when a
bomb destroyed the conference hall.
