Character Basics
================

Now that you've mastered the basics of posting and navigation, we must
turn our attention to character creation. When you are initially
assigned to your first ship, only your name and chosen department will
appear on the ships roster. You now have some information to complete.

You will need to complete your roster entry by adding your character
species, height and weight. There is also space within each rostered
character to add a full biography of your character. To access a
characters biography, you need only click that characters name on the
roster.

You are able to edit your own character biographies by clicking their
name on the roster.

The temptation to use non-standard races is strong, but we have a set of
basic rules concerning what races may be used for Starfleet characters.
These rules are laid out in one of our governing edicts, FCOMM. The
section in its entirety can be found
[here.](http://www.star-fleet.com/library/bookshelf/charters/charter-fleets.html#d0e351)

What the above linked edict specifically means is that only the
character types listed or referred to can be played. Generally speaking
this means any species that is a part of the Federation as referenced in
one of the series is acceptable. Known hostile species, such as
Romulans, Cardassians and such which we've seen specifically acting
against the Federation in the series are unacceptable because they'd
never be realistically present in Starfleet. Neutral species which have
been seen to be allied, such as Klingons can be accepted but only with
the consent of your CO. Custom species which you've described can also
be accepted, provided you've chosen one from our Reference Manual or
have a full backstory and history to the people that you can provide to
help your CO make a decision. Obviously the "super" species are
unacceptable for any reason (Q, Borg, Species 8472 and Changelings).

Full lists of federation member worlds for canon species can be found at
the website [Memory Alpha](http://www.memory-alpha.org). We maintain a
list of custom STF species for use by Gamemaster's in the Gamemaster
Department, but you need the creator's permission as well as your CO's
in order to play one of these.

Now that you've chosen the basic features of your character, you can
begin the biography. Below is a suggested biography, but by all means do
feel free to customise it to your own standards. Creativity is the
cornerstone of our club and we appreciate players who can bring
something different to the game.

Name: Larry Smith

Rank: Ensign

Occupation: Engineer

Race: Andorian

Age: 22

Height: 6'2"

Weight: 165lb

Physical Description: Here you could include such things as hair colour,
eye colour, scars, tattoos, distinguishing marks, general body build
(muscular, large, skinny, lithe) and any other feature (tentacles or a
second head :P)

History: Here you could include information on parents, siblings, place
of birth, date of birth, Institutes of education, anecdotes, what led
them to Starfleet. Any information at all could go here.

Medical History: This comes in especially useful when joining a new ship
for the first time because you'll need to report in for a medical
examination as well as a psychological assessment before assuming duty.
Any past injuries or operations should go in here. Any medical
conditions your character may have or any medical history that could
affect your character.

Naturally there are more things that could be added here.

With the biography complete and emailed to your CO, you're ready to
report in and begin posting.
