Ship Navigation
===============

Once you have entered your chosen Fleet from the login page you will see
what we call the Fleet page. The Fleet page holds necessary links and
information on that Fleet.

After clicking on your selected fleet, a new page will appear. We call
this page the Fleet MOTD or Message Of The Day. It contains a myriad of
information on the fleet in question, including individual fleet
policies and information on the fleet command staff.

![ Fleet MOTD Screenshot ](images/handbook/fleetmotd.png)

The navigation bar along the left now provides a list of the ships
within your chosen fleet. Selecting any of the ships listed will forward
you to that ships individual MOTD and crew roster. This provides
information on the crew, command staff and mission status.

Within the crew roster, Character and user names are highlighted to
allow you to access information that may be available for that character
and user.

Now that you're ready to begin reading posts and making some of your
own, you will need to observe the three tabs at the top right hand
corner of the ship MOTD:

- View: This will return you to the ship MOTD from any other post screen
within the ship.

- Captain's Log: This is an optional record the Captain may use to
provide information on past missions and to keep you up to date on
current happenings in character. Not all Captains keep logs and not all
are up to date.

- Notes: This will access the posts within the group. Clicking this is
the first step towards posting.

Once you click the notes tab, it will load a page containing a list of
all posts made within the previous seven days. This can be adjusted to
read back in increments up to one year. Because of the large number of
posts that accrue within a year, one week is the default option here.

New posts to your account will be listed with a red \*New\* next to
them. The familiar search box continues into this page should you wish
to search only for specific notes or specific note threads. If you wish
to search in specific topics rather than trolling through an entire page
of alternate topics, the "In Topic" section can be used to enter a
specific topic title. It will thus display only messages within the
specified timeframe under that topic.

When you select a post, it will appear at the top of the list with a
number of options beneath it:

- Previous Note: This takes you to the previously posted note
chronologically

- Parent: This will take you to the first note in any given thread.

- Reply: This allows you to make a reply to the post selected.

- Next Chronologically: This shows you the next note posted
chronologically from that point forward.

- Next In Location: This will take you to the next post in the current
thread

- Next New Note: This will take you to the next new note posted
chronologically.

You'll notice the text in any given post utilises several different
colours. This is to distinguish each reply given. To provide these
colours, the system automatically generates a series of colons in each
reply to any given post. You should never edit these colons, nor preface
a reply with them as it makes the post more difficult to interpret.

To reply to a message, simply click Reply. This will translate the
current message into an editable boxed format.

At the top of this box is a 'Location' field in which you can either
keep the current thread title or alter it if you're changing location in
this post.

![ Reply Option Screen ](images/handbook/reply.png)

Beneath that is the body text. The system will have automatically input
the required colons (':') to enable text colouring. If the message is
too long, it's considered good practice to remove any excess portions,
leaving only the relevant previous reply to give any responder an idea
of what you're responding to. Any parts that are removed should be
replaced with '\*snip\*' to inform other readers that content was
removed.

Once you've made your reply, you can either preview the post, providing
it in finished format with a shaded background, or simply press submit
to send it to the server.

Now that you've replied, you can find the next new post in the list
beneath the post and continue reading from there or create a new note
entirely.

In order to create an entirely new post, you must use the left
navigation bar once more. Clicking 'Post Note' will create a similar box
to that you found in the reply note function. You now have the option of
creating a new location or using one which has previously been utilised.
These can be found in a smaller text below the Location field.

Once you've written your post, you have the same preview and submit
options available to you.

You have now mastered the basics of posting.
