About SNN
=========

Known variously as the STF News and Announcement Service, CNN of STF,
and the Starfleet News Network, SNN is STF's oldest media empire dating
all the way back to 1992. It passed through several hands in STF's early
days, including assorted columns by [Genesun
Han](http://star-fleet.com/snn/misc/index.html#ME), [Franco
Torres](http://star-fleet.com/snn/misc/index.html#FT), and finally
Editor-in-Chief [Mike
Cathcart](http://star-fleet.com/snn/misc/index.html#MC). Each published
essentially simple columns, mixing somewhat current events with satire.

[Mike Ballway](http://star-fleet.com/snn/misc/index.html#M) took over
the SNN Empire in 1995 when Cathcart went AWOL and assumed the title
Executive Editor since Cathcart hadn't actually stepped down. Following
a series of stand-alone publications and editorials, Ballway started
[SNN UPDATE](http://star-fleet.com/snn/su/index.html), a comedic column
that would run for many years, documenting in a rather tongue-in-cheek
fashion the latter half of STF's Prodigy Era. SNN UPDATE was also the
origin of SNN QuoteGags(tm), which served as a mainstay of SNN media for
many years.

In 1997 when STF expanded onto the World Wide Web with the "WeBB" branch
of the club, SNN expanded with it.
[WeBBsights](http://star-fleet.com/snn/ws/index.html) was a joint
venture between Ballway and Larry Garfield, who joined the WeBB in its
very early days after being prodded to do so by Ballway for years before
that. It was the first STF news publication to take itself seriously (at
least sometimes). Varying from completely fictional humor stories to
objective reporting with everything in between, WeBBsights was a regular
fixture on the WeBB for several years. When Ballway left STF in 2000,
Garfield took over as Executive Editor, a position he still holds.

Another Prodigy publication joined the SNN network in 1998: Mark
Wilson's [SNN Headline News](http://star-fleet.com/snn/hn/index.html).
Wilson, an STF import from competing Prodigy club STNG, was jealous of
Ballway's humorous capacity and set out to get some laughs of his own.
Ballway and Wilson would later both insist under oath that the other was
the funnest person in STF. Headline News went through two volumes, one
Prodigy-targeted and one WeBB-targeted. Mark chose to publish many
issues off-site, although as of this writing the full [Headline News
archive](http://www.sedhe.net/snnhn/archives/) is still available.

In 1999, the defunct WeBBsights section "Fleet Beat" was spun off into
its own publication of the same name under the leadership of Garfield
and Seamus Hughes. [Fleet
Beat](http://star-fleet.com/snn/fb/latest.html) was to cover all In
Character events throughout STF, covered by a large staff of reporters,
each with their own "fleet beat". Due to the coordination involved,
however, Fleet Beat lasted exactly one issue. A similar function was
later picked up by the [GMD
Archive](http://www.star-fleet.com/gmd/archive/).

SNN is the only publication known to have crossed over into In Character
activities. Since the beginnings of the 1997-98 Fleet Three Fleetwide,
SNN has had a periodic RPing presence in the form of reporter characters
(always played by Garfield) covering (and sometimes interfering with)
plot events. The often-referenced Nameless Ensigns Weekly Standard
(N.E.W.S.) is a fictional competitor.

SNN is reputedly headquartered at SNN Center, Chicago, on the site of
the old Tribune Building.

Histories
=========

In addition to its periodicals, SNN has also collected a number of
memoirs and club histories written by various members.

-   [](http://star-fleet.com/snn/history/nr.html): No Regrets, by Jim
    Midyette, 1994

-   [](http://star-fleet.com/snn/history/bourdaa.html): The Bourdaa
    Papers, by Mike Bourdaa, 1997

-   [](http://star-fleet.com/snn/history/webb.html): The STF WeBB
    History, by Greg Hertzsch, 1998

-   [](http://star-fleet.com/snn/history/ed.html): History of STF's ED,
    by Mike Ballway, 1998

Links
=====

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/): The Starfleet News Network

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/su/): SNN UPDATE

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/ws/): WeBBsights

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/hn/): SNN Headline News (onsite
    archive)

-   [](http://www.sedhe.net/snnhn/archives/): SNN Headline News (offsite
    archive)

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/fb/latest.html): Fleet Beat

-   [](http://www.star-fleet.com/snn/jukebox/): The SNN Jukebox; musical
    satires by SNN staffers
